Don't worry about what anybody else is going to do. The best way to
predict the future is to invent it.
-- Alan Kay

Premature optimization is the root of all evil (or at least most of it)
in programming.
-- Donald Knuth

Lisp has jokingly been called "the most intelligent way to misuse a
computer". I think that description is a great compliment because it
transmits the full flavor of liberation: it has assisted a number of our
most gifted fellow humans in thinking previously impossible thoughts.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Keep away from people who try to belittle your ambitions. Small people
always do that, but the really great make you feel that you, too, can
become great.
-- Mark Twain

What Paul does, and does very well, is to take ideas and concepts that
are beautiful in the abstract, and brings them down to a real world
level. That's a rare talent to find in writing these days.
-- Jeff "hemos" Bates

Since programmers create programs out of nothing, imagination is our
only limitation. Thus, in the world of programming, the hero is the one
who has great vision. Paul Graham is one of our contemporary heroes. He
has the ability to embrace the vision, and to express it plainly. His
works are my favorites, especially the ones describing language design.
He explains secrets of programming, languages, and human nature that can
only be learned from the hacker experience. This book shows you his
great vision, and tells you the truth about the nature of hacking.
-- Yukihiro "Matz" Matsumoto

To follow the path:
 look to the master,
 follow the master,
 walk with the master,
 see through the master,
 become the master.
-- Anonymous

No problem should ever have to be solved twice.
-- Eric S. Raymond

Attitude is no substitute for competence.
-- Eric S. Raymond

It is said that the real winner is the one who lives in today but able
to see tomorrow.
-- Juan Meng

Fools ignore complexity. Pragmatists suffer it. Some can avoid it.
Geniuses remove it.
-- Alan J. Perlis

A year spent in artificial intelligence is enough to make one believe in
God.
-- Alan J. Perlis

Dealing with failure is easy: Work hard to improve. Success is also easy
to handle: You've solved the wrong problem. Work hard to improve.
-- Alan J. Perlis

Within a computer natural language is unnatural.
-- Alan J. Perlis

You think you know when you learn, are more sure when you can write,
even more when you can teach, but certain when you can program.
-- Alan J. Perlis

Adapting old programs to fit new machines usually means adapting new
machines to behave like old ones.
-- Alan J. Perlis

A little learning is a dangerous thing.
-- Alexander Pope

Computer science education cannot make anybody an expert programmer any
more than studying brushes and pigment can make somebody an expert
painter.
-- Eric S. Raymond

Einstein argued that there must be simplified explanations of nature,
because God is not capricious or arbitrary.
-- Frederick P. Brooks

Students should be evaluated on how well they can achieve the goals they
strived to achieve within a realistic context. Students need to learn to
do things, not know things.
-- Roger Schank

We remember what we learn when we care about performing better and when
we believe that what we have been asked to do is representative of
reality.
-- Roger Schank

There really is no learning without doing.
-- Roger Schank

We really have to get over the idea that some stuff is just worth
knowing even if you never do anything with it. Human memories happily
erase stuff that has no purpose, so why try to fill up children's heads
with such stuff?
-- Roger Schank

La tactique, c'est ce que vous faites quand il y a quelque chose à
faire; la stratégie, c'est ce que vous faites quand il n'y a rien à
faire.
-- Xavier Tartacover

The only problems we can really solve in a satisfactory manner are those
that finally admit a nicely factored solution.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

The best way to learn to live with our limitations is to know them.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

This challenge, viz. the confrontation with the programming task, is so
unique that this novel experience can teach us a lot about ourselves. It
should deepen our understanding of the processes of design and creation,
it should give us better control over the task of organizing our
thoughts. If it did not do so, to my taste we should no deserve the
computer at all! It has allready taught us a few lessons, and the one I
have chosen to stress in this talk is the following. We shall do a much
better programming job, provided that we approach the task with a full
appreciation of its tremenduous difficulty, provided that we stick to
modest and elegant programming languages, provided that we respect the
intrinsec limitations of the human mind and approach the task as Very
Humble Programmers.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Ce n'est que par les relations qu'on entretient entre nos différentes
connaissances qu'elles nous restent accessibles.
[It's only through the relationships that we maintain between our different
knowledge that they remain accessible to us.]
-- Shnuup

We now come to the decisive step of mathematical abstraction: we forget
about what the symbols stand for. ...[The mathematician] need not be
idle; there are many operations which he may carry out with these
symbols, without ever having to look at the things they stand for.
-- Hermann Weyl

An expert is, according to my working definition "someone who doesn't
need to look up answers to easy questions".
-- Eric Lippert

The programmer must seek both perfection of part and adequacy of
collection.
-- Alan J. Perlis

Thus, programs must be written for people to read, and only incidentally
for machines to execute.
-- Alan J. Perlis

We control complexity by building abstractions that hide details when
appropriate. We control complexity by establishing conventional
interfaces that enable us to construct systems by combining standard,
well-understood pieces in a ``mix and match'' way. We control complexity
by establishing new languages for describing a design, each of which
emphasizes particular aspects of the design and deemphasizes others.
-- Alan J. Perlis

The acts of the mind, wherein it exerts its power over simple ideas, are
chiefly these three: 1. Combining several simple ideas into one compound
one, and thus all complex ideas are made. 2. The second is bringing two
ideas, whether simple or complex, together, and setting them by one
another so as to take a view of them at once, without uniting them into
one, by which it gets all its ideas of relations. 3. The third is
separating them from all other ideas that accompany them in their real
existence: this is called abstraction, and thus all its general ideas
are made.
-- John Locke

Lisp programmers know the value of everything but the cost of nothing.
-- Alan J. Perlis

An interpreter raises the machine to the level of the user program; a
compiler lowers the user program to the level of the machine language.
-- SICP

Everything should be made as simple as possible, but no simpler.
-- Albert Einstein

The great dividing line between success and failure can be expressed in
five words: "I did not have time."
-- WestHost weekly newsletter 14 Feb 2003

When your enemy is making a very serious mistake, don't be impolite and
disturb him.
-- Napoleon Bonaparte

A charlatan makes obscure what is clear; a thinker makes clear what is
obscure.
-- Hugh Kingsmill

There are two ways of constructing a software design; one way is to make
it so simple that there are obviously no deficiencies, and the other way
is to make it so complicated that there are no obvious deficiencies. The
first method is far more difficult.
-- C. A. R. Hoare

And if you go too far up, abstraction-wise, you run out of oxygen.
Sometimes smart thinkers just don't know when to stop, and they create
these absurd, all-encompassing, high-level pictures of the universe that
are all good and fine, but don't actually mean anything at all.
-- Joel Spolsky

The three chief virtues of a programmer are: Laziness, Impatience and
Hubris.
-- Larry Wall

All non-trivial abstractions, to some degree, are leaky.
-- Joel Spolsky

XML wasn't designed to be edited by humans on a regular basis.
-- Guido van Rossum

Premature abstraction is an equally grevious sin as premature
optimization.
-- Keith Devens

You can have premature generalization as well as premature optimization.
-- Bjarne Stroustrup

He causes his sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on
the righteous and the unrighteous.
-- Matthew 5:45

A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming, is
not worth knowing.
-- Alan J. Perlis

Je n'ai fait celle-ci plus longue que parce que je n'ai pas eu le loisir
de la faire plus courte. (I have made this letter so long only because I
did not have the leisure to make it shorter.)
-- Blaise Pascal

Men never do evil so completely and cheerfully as when they do it from
religious conviction.
-- Blaise Pascal

Everybody makes their own fun. If you don't make it yourself, it ain't
fun - it's entertainment.
-- David Mamet

If we wish to count lines of code, we should not regard them as *lines
produced* but as *lines spent*.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Sometimes a man with too broad a perspective reveals himself as having
no real perspective at all. A man who tries too hard to see every side
may be a man who is trying to avoid choosing any side. A man who tries
too hard to seek a deeper truth may be trying to hide from the truth he
already knows. That is not a sign of intellectual sophistication and
"great thinking". It is a demonstration of moral degeneracy and
cowardice.
-- Steven Den Beste

Omit needless words.
-- William Strunk, Jr.

I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn't learn something from
him.
-- Galileo Galilei

A society that puts equality - in the sense of equality of outcome -
ahead of freedom will end up with neither equality nor freedom. The use
of force to achieve equality will destroy freedom, and the force,
introduced for good purposes, will end up in the hands of people who use
it to promote their own interests.
-- Milton Friedman

Philosophy: the finding of bad reasons for what one believes by
instinct.
-- Brave New World

Of all tyrannies a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its
victims may be the most oppressive. It may be better to live under
robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies, The robber baron's
cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated;
but those who torment us for own good will torment us without end, for
they do so with the approval of their own conscience.
-- C.S. Lewis

Fools! Don't they know that tears are a woman's most effective weapon?
-- Catwoman

It's like a condom; I'd rather have it and not need it than need it and
not have it.
-- some chick in Alien vs. Predator, when asked why she always carries a gun

C++ is history repeated as tragedy. Java is history repeated as farce.
-- Scott McKay

Simplicity takes effort - genius, even.
-- Paul Graham

Show, don't tell.
-- Anonymous

In God I trust; I will not be afraid. What can mortal man do to me?
-- David (Psalm 56:4)

Linux is only free if your time has no value.
-- Jamie Zawinski

Code is poetry.
-- Anonymous

If you choose not to decide, you still have made a choice.
-- Rush

Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations
which we can perform without thinking about them.
-- Alfred North Whitehead

The function of wisdom is to discriminate between good and evil.
-- Cicero

The reason to do animation is caricature. Good caricature picks out the
essense of the statement and removes everything else. It's not simply
about reproducing reality; It's about bumping it up.
-- Brad Bird

Mistakes were made.
-- Ronald Reagan

I would rather be an optimist and be wrong than a pessimist who proves
to be right. The former sometimes wins, but never the latter.
-- "Hoots"

What is truth?
-- Pontius Pilate

Life moves pretty fast. If you don't stop and look around once in a
while, you could miss it.
-- Ferris Bueller

Lisp is worth learning for the profound enlightenment experience you
will have when you finally get it; that experience will make you a
better programmer for the rest of your days, even if you never actually
use Lisp itself a lot.
-- Eric S. Raymond

Any sufficiently complicated C or Fortran program contains an ad hoc,
informally specified, bug-ridden, slow implementation of half of Common
Lisp.
-- Philip Greenspun

I was talking recently to a friend who teaches at MIT. His field is hot
now and every year he is inundated by applications from would-be
graduate students. "A lot of them seem smart," he said. "What I can't
tell is whether they have any kind of taste."
-- Paul Graham

The direct pursuit of happiness is a recipe for an unhappy life.
-- Donald Campbell

It's no trick for talented people to be interesting, but it's a gift to
be interested. We want an organization filled with interested people.
-- Randy S. Nelson

Why teach drawing to accountants? Because drawing class doesn't just
teach people to draw. It teaches them to be more observant. There's no
company on earth that wouldn't benefit from having people become more
observant.
-- Randy S. Nelson

All problems in computer science can be solved by another level of
indirection.
-- Butler Lampson

A designer knows he has arrived at perfection not when there is no
longuer anything to add, but when there is no longuer anything to take
away.
-- Antoine de St Exupery

For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing
them.
-- Aristotle

There are many ways to avoid success in life, but the most sure-fire
just might be procrastination.
-- Hara Estroff Marano

PI seconds is a nanocentury.
-- [fact]

A non negative binary integer value x is a power of 2 iff (x & (x-1)) is
0 using 2's complement arithmetic.
-- [fact]

While I’ve always appreciated beautiful code, I share Jonathan’s concern
about studying it too much. I think studying beauty in music and
painting has led us to modern classical music and painting that the
majority of us just don’t get. Beauty can be seen when it emerges, but
isn’t something to strive for in isolation of a larger context. In the
software world, the larger context would be the utility of the software
to the end user.
-- Anonymous

Dont give users the opportunity to lock themselves.
-- Anonymous

Any fool can make the simple complex, only a smart person can make the
complex simple.
-- Anonymous

To do something well you have to love it. So to the extent you can
preserve hacking as something you love, you're likely to do it well. Try
to keep the sense of wonder you had about programming at age 14. If
you're worried that your current job is rotting your brain, it probably
is.
-- Paul Graham

- If you give him a penny for his thoughts, you'd get change.
- Not the sharpest knife in the drawer.
- A prime candidate for natural deselection.
-- [Ideas for flamewars]

What I didn't understand was that the value of some new acquisition
wasn't the difference between its retail price and what I paid for it.
It was the value I derived from it. Stuff is an extremely illiquid
asset. Unless you have some plan for selling that valuable thing you got
so cheaply, what difference does it make what it's "worth?" The only way
you're ever going to extract any value from it is to use it. And if you
don't have any immediate use for it, you probably never will.
-- Paul Graham

Only bad designers blame their failings on the users.
-- Anonymous

Humans aren't rational - they rationalize. And I don't just mean "some
of them" or "other people". I'm talking about everyone. We have a "logic
engine" in our brains, but for the most part, it's not the one in the
driver's seat - instead it operates after the fact, generating
rationalizations and excuses for our behavior.
-- Paul Buchheit

What do Americans look for in a car? I've heard many answers when I've
asked this question. The answers include excellent safety ratings, great
gas mileage, handling, and cornering ability, among others. I don't
believe any of these. That's because the first principle of the Culture
Code is that the only effective way to understand what people truly mean
is to ignore what they say. This is not to suggest that people
intentionally lie or misrepresent themselves. What it means is that,
when asked direct questions about their interests and preferences,
people tend to give answers they believe the questioner wants to hear.
Again, this is not because they intend to mislead. It is because people
respond to these questions with their cortexes, the parts of their
brains that control intelligence rather than emotion or instinct. They
ponder a question, they process a question, and when they deliver an
answer, it is the product of deliberation. They believe they are telling
the truth. A lie detector would confirm this. In most cases, however,
they aren't saying what they mean.
-- The culture code

When all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.
-- Anonymous

Good coders code, great reuse.
-- Anonymous

The lesson of the story might appear to be that self-interested and
ambitious people in power are often the cause of wastefulness in
developing countries. But self-interested and ambitious people are in
positions of power, great and small, all over the world. In many places,
they are restrained by the law, the press, and democratic opposition.
Cameroon's tragedy is that there is nothing to hold self-interest in
check.
-- Tim Harford

To solve your problems you must learn new skills, adapt new thought
patterns, and become a different person than you were before that
problem. God has crafted you for success. In the middle of every
adversity lie your best opportunities. Discover it, build upon it and
move forward in your journey to live an extraordinary life. You owe it
to yourself to live a great life. Don’t let negative thoughts pull you
down. Be grateful and open to learn and grow.
-- Anonymous

If there is a will, there is a way.
-- Anonymous

Having large case statements in an object-oriented language is a sure
sign your design is flawed.
-- [Fixing architecture flaws in Rails' ORM]

Being a programmer is the same way. The only way to be a good programmer
is to write code. When you realize you haven't been writing much code
lately, and it seems like all you do is brag about code you wrote in the
past, and people start looking at you funny while you're shooting your
mouth off, realize it's because they know. They might not even know they
know, but they know. So, yes, doing what you love brings success, and by
all means, throw yourself a nice big party, buy yourself a nice car,
soak up the adulation of an adoring crowd. Then shut the fuck up and get
back to work.
-- Sincerity Theory

Another feature about this guy is his low threshold of boredom. He'll
pick up on a task and work frantically at it, accomplishing wonders in a
short time and then get bored and drop it before its properly finished.
He'll do nothing but strum his guitar and lie around in bed for several
days after. Thats also part of the pattern too; periods of frenetic
activity followed by periods of melancholia, withdrawal and inactivity.
This is a bipolar personality.
-- Mark Tarver

My dream is that people adopt it on its own merits. We're not trying to
bend Ruby on Rails to fit the enterprise, we're encouraging enterprises
to bend to Ruby on Rails. Come if you like it, stay away if you don't.
We're not going head over heels to accommodate the enterprise or to lure
them away from Java. That's how you end up with Java, if you start
bending to special interest groups.
-- David Heinemeier Hansson

New eyes have X-ray vision. [someone that hasn't written it is more
likely to spot the bug. "someone" can be you after a break]
-- William S. Annis

So - what are the most important problems in software engineering? I’d
answer “dealing with complexity”.
-- Mark Chu-Carroll

So the mere constraint of staying in regular contact with us will push
you to make things happen, because otherwise you'll be embarrassed to
tell us that you haven't done anything new since the last time we
talked.
-- Paul Graham

The choice of the university is mostly important for the piece of paper
you get at the end. The education you get depends on you.
-- Andreas Zwinkau

Remember that you are humans in the first place and only after that
programmers.
-- Alexandru Vancea

Humans differ from animals to the degree that they are not merely an end
result of their conditioning, but are able to reflect on their
experiences and strategies, and apply insight to make changes in the way
they live to modify the outcome.
-- SlideTrombone

As builders and creators finding the perfect solution should not be our
main goal. We should find the perfect problem.
-- Isaac

Just like carpentry, measure twice cut once.
-- Mike Solomon

The good thing about reinventing the wheel is that you get a round one.
-- Douglas Crockford

I feel it is everybodies obligation to reach for the best in themselves
and use that for the interest of mankind.
-- Cornelius

Abstraction is a form of data compression: absolutely necessary, because
human short-term memory is so small, but the critically important aspect
of abstraction is the algorithm that gets you from the name back to the
"uncompressed" details.
-- Bruce Wilder

Have you ever noticed that when you sit down to write something, half
the ideas that end up in it are ones you thought of while writing it?
The same thing happens with software. Working to implement one idea
gives you more ideas.
-- Paul Graham

In general, we can think of data as defined by some collection of
selectors and constructors, together with specified conditions that
these procedures must fulfill in order to be a valid representation.
-- SICP

Resume writing is just like dating, or applying for a bank loan, in that
nobody wants you if you're desperate.
-- Steve Yegge

Mastering isn’t a survival instinct; it’s an urge to excel. Mastering is
one of the experiences that delineates us from animals. It is striving
to be more tomorrow than we are today; to perfectly pitch the ball over
home plate; to craft the perfect sentence in an article; to open the
oven and feel the warm, richly-scented cloud telling you dinner is going
to be absolutely extraordinary. We humans crave perfection, to be
masters of our domain, to distinguish ourselves by sheer skill and
prowess.
-- Joesgoals.com

It(mastering)’s knowing what you are doing.
-- Joesgoals.com

Well then. How could you possibly live without automated refactoring
tools? How else could you coordinate the caterpillar-like motions of all
Java’s identical tiny legs, its thousands of similar parts?
I’ll tell you how:
Ruby is a butterfly.
-- Stevey

You will never become a Great Programmer until you acknowledge that you
will always be a Terrible Programmer.
You will remain a Great Programmer for only as long as you acknowledge
that you are still a Terrible Programmer.
-- Marc

If I tell you I'm good, you would probably think I'm boasting. If I tell
you I'm no good, you know I'm lying.
-- Bruce Lee

Let me try to get this straight: Lisp is a language for describing
algorithms. This was JohnMcCarthy's original purpose, anyway: to build
something more convenient than a Turing machine. Lisp is not about file,
socket or GUI programming - Lisp is about expressive power. (For
example, you can design multiple object systems for Lisp, in Lisp. Or
implement the now-fashionable AOP. Or do arbitrary transformations on
parsed source code.) If you don't value expressive power, Lisp ain't for
you. I, personally, would prefer Lisp to not become mainstream: this
would necessarily involve a dumbing down.
-- Vladimir Slepnev

Je ne vous impose aucune contrainte, aucune limite. Surprenez-moi,
étonnez-moi, défiez-moi, défiez-vous vous-même. Vous avez le choix: vous
pouvez rester dans l'ombre ou en sortir en étant parmis les trop rares
exceptions à avoir réussi. L'heure est venue d'aller bien au delà de
votre potentiel. L'heure est venue maintenant de descendre vraiment en
vous. L'heure est venue de démontrer pourquoi vous êtes l'élite, les
quelques élus, les rares lueurs qui offrent à cette compagnie son
caractère exceptionnel, sa luminescence.
-- Le PDG de NURV, dans "Anti-trust"

If something isn’t working, you need to look back and figure out what
got you excited in the first place.
-- David Gorman

Opportunities that present themselves to you are the consequence - at
least partially - of being in the right place at the right time. They
tend to present themselves when you're not expecting it - and often
when you are engaged in other activities that would seem to preclude you
from pursuing them. And they come and go quickly - if you don't jump
all over an opportunity, someone else generally will and it will vanish.
-- Marc Andreessen

Pay attention to opportunity cost at all times. Doing one thing means
not doing other things. This is a form of risk that is very easy to
ignore, to your detriment.
-- Marc Andreessen

Seize any opportunity, or anything that looks like opportunity. They are
rare, much rarer than you think...
-- Nassim Nicholas Taleb

I think that a lot of programmers are ignoring an important point when
people talk about reducing code repetition on large projects.
Part of the idea is that large projects are intrinsically *wrong*. That
you should be looking at making a number of smaller projects that are
composable, even if you never end up reusing one of those smaller
projects elsewhere.
-- Dan Nugent

We tend to seek easy, single-factor explanations of success. For most
important things, though, success actually requires avoiding many
separate causes of failure.
-- Jared Diamond

Things which matter most must never be at the mercy of things which
matter least.
-- Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

I think the root of your mistake is saying that macros don't scale to
larger groups. The real truth is that macros don't scale to stupider
groups.
-- Paul Graham

Argue with idiots, and you become an idiot.
If you compete with slaves you become a slave.
-- Paul Graham and Norbert Weiner, respectively

Always dive down into a problem and get your hands on the deepest issue
behind the problem. All other considerations are to dismissed as
"engineering details"; they can be sorted out after the basic problem
has been solved.
-- Chris Crawford

Don't have good ideas if you aren't willing to be responsible for them.
-- Alan J. Perlis

It is impossible to sharpen a pencil with a blunt axe. It is equally
vain to try to do it with ten blunt axes instead.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

If we wish to count lines of code, we should not regard them as lines
produced but as lines spent.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

The most damaging phrase in the language is, It's always been done that
way.
-- Rear Admiral Dr. Grace Hopper

Getting back to failing early, I've learned it's important to completely
fail. Get fired. Shoot the project, then burn its corpse. Melt the CVS
repository and microwave the backup CDs. When things go wrong, I've
often tried to play the hero from start to finish. Guess what? Some
projects are doomed no matter what. Some need skills I don't possess.
And some need a fresh face.
-- Reginald Braithwaite

The only thing a man should ever be 100% convinced of is his own
ignorance.
-- DJ MacLean

The best people and organizations have the attitude of wisdom: The
courage to act on what they know right now and the humility to change
course when they find better evidence.
The quest for management magic and breakthrough ideas is overrated;
being a master of the obvious is underrated.
Jim Maloney is right: Work is an overrated activity
-- Bob Sutton

In theory, there’s no difference between theory and practice. But in
practice, there is.
-- Albert Einstein

Act from reason, and failure makes you rethink and study harder.
Act from faith, and failure makes you blame someone and push harder.
-- Erik Naggum

Measure everything you can about the product, and you'll start seeing
patterns.
-- Max Levchin

Something Confusing about "Hard":
It's tempting to think that if it's hard, then it's valuable.
Most valuable things are hard.
Most hard things are completely useless - (picture of someone smashing
their head through concrete blocks kung-fu style).
Hard DOES NOT EQUATE TO BEING valuable.
Remember Friendster back in the day?
You'd sign in, invite friends, have 25 friends, go to their profile, and
then it'd show how you were connected to each one.
That's an impressive [some geeky CS jargon] Cone traversal of a tree -
100 million string comparisons per page - it won't scale.
Used to take a minute per page to load, and Friendster died a painful
death.

MySpace - not interested in solving problems
They use the shortcut of "Miss Fitzpatrick is in your extended network"
(i.e. even when you're not even signed up for MySpace)
They didn't solve the hard problem. But they make the more relevant
assumption that you want to be connected to hot women. [LOL]
Shows Alexa graph showing that in early 2005 Myspace took off, and
quickly bypassed Friendster and never looked back.
-- Max Levchin

Quality of the people is better than the quality of the business idea.
Crappy people can screw up the best idea in the world.
-- Hadi Partovi & Ali Partovi

The only constant in the world of hi-tech is change.
-- Mark Ward

Write it properly first. It's easier to make a correct program fast,
than to make a fast program correct.
-- Anonymous

J'ai toujours préféré la folie des passions à la sagesse de
l'indifférence.
-- Anatole France

You can’t get to version 500 if you don’t start with a version 1.
-- BetterExplained.com

The wonderful and frustrating thing about understanding yourself is that
nobody can do it for you.
-- BetterExplained.com

When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however
improbable, must be the truth.
-- Sherlock Holmes

In order to understand what another person is saying, you must assume
that it is true and try to find out what it could be true of.
-- George Miller

A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a single step.
-- Lao­Tzu

C’s great for what it’s great for.
-- Ben Hoyts

There is one meaning [for static in C]: a global variable that is
invisible outside the current scope, be it a function or a file.
-- Paolo Bonzini

Processors don't get better so that they can have more free time.
Processors get better so _you_ can have more free time.
-- LeCamarade

The venerable master Qc Na was walking with his student, Anton. Hoping to
prompt the master into a discussion, Anton said "Master, I have heard that
objects are a very good thing - is this true?" Qc Na looked pityingly at
his student and replied, "Foolish pupil - objects are merely a poor man's
closures."
    Chastised, Anton took his leave from his master and returned to his cell,
intent on studying closures. He carefully read the entire "Lambda: The
Ultimate..." series of papers and its cousins, and implemented a small
Scheme interpreter with a closure-based object system. He learned much, and
looked forward to informing his master of his progress.
    On his next walk with Qc Na, Anton attempted to impress his master by
saying "Master, I have diligently studied the matter, and now understand
that objects are truly a poor man's closures." Qc Na responded by hitting
Anton with his stick, saying "When will you learn? Closures are a poor man's
object." At that moment, Anton became enlightened.
(Na = Norman Adams, Qa = Christian Queinnec)
-- Anton van Straaten

Understanding why C++ is the way it is helps a programmer use it well. A deep
understanding of a tool is essential for an expert craftsman.
-- Bjarne Stroustrup

No art, however minor, demands less than total dedication if you want to
excel in it.
-- Alberti

The minute you put the blame on someone else you’ve switch things from
being a problem you can control to a problem outside of your control.
-- engtech

State is the root of all evil. In particular functions with side effects
should be avoided.
-- OO Sucks

Ils ne sont pas forts parce qu'ils sont forts. Ils sont forts parce que
nous sommes faibles.
-- Ragala Khalid

It is better to be quiet and thought a fool than to open your mouth and
remove all doubt.
-- WikiHow

A tail call allows a function to return the result of another function
without leaving an entry on the stack. Tail recursion is a specific case
of tail calling.
-- ASPN

Simplicity means the achievement of maximum effect with minimum means.
-- Dr. Koichi Kawana

Normality is the route to nowhere.
-- Ridderstrale & Nordstorm

The problem is that Microsoft just has no taste. And I don't mean that
in a small way, I mean that in a big way.
-- Steve Jobs

Do you want to sell sugared water all your life or do you want to change
the world?
-- Steve Jobs

1 - Creativity and innovation always build on the past.
2 - The past always tries to control the creativity that builds on it.
3 - Free societies enable the future by limiting the past.
4 - Ours is less and less a free society.
-- Lawrence Lessig

Good work is no done by ‘humble’ men.
-- G. H. Hardy

Simplicity and pragmatism beat complexity and theory any day.
-- Denis Waitley

The proof is by reductio ad absurdum, and reductio ad absurdum, which
Euclid loved so much, is one of a mathematician’s finest weapons. It is
a far finer gambit than any chess gambit: a chess player may offer the
sacrifice of a pawn or even a piece, but a mathematician offers the
game.
-- G. H. Hardy

Remember, always be yourself ... unless you suck!
-- Joss Whedon

All great things require great dedication.
-- Chuck Norris

I'm always happy to trade performance for readability as long as the
former isn't already scarce.
-- Crayz

You have to write for your audience. I would never write (1..5).map
&'*2' in Java when I could write
ListFactoryFactory.getListFactoryFromResource(
 new ResourceName('com.javax.magnitudes.integers').
setLowerBound(1).setUpperBound(5).setStep(1).applyFunctor(
 new Functor () { public void eval (x) { return x * 2; } }))
I'm simplifying, of course, I've left out the security and logging
wrappers.
-- Reginald Braithwaite

The definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again
and expecting different results.
-- Benjamin Franklin

A no uttered from the deepest conviction is better than a yes merely
uttered to please or what is worse, to avoid trouble.
-- Mahatma Gandhi

I think it is wise, and only honest, to warn you that my goal is
immodest. It is not my purpose to "transfer knowledge" to you that,
subsequently, you can forget again. My purpose is no less than to
effectuate in each of you a noticeable, irreversable change. I want you
to gain, for the rest of your lives, the insight that beautiful proofs
are not "found" by trial anf error but are the result of a consciously
applied design discipline. I want you to raise your quality standards. I
mean, if 10 years from now, when you are doing something quick and
dirty, you suddenly visualize that I am looking over your shoulders and
say to yourself "Dijkstra would not have liked this", well, that would
be enough immortality for me.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

The general principle for complexity design is this: Think locally, act
locally.
-- Richard P. Gabriel & Ron Goldman

Programming is the art of figuring out what you want so precisely that
even a machine can do it.
-- Some guy who isn't famous

Hence my urgent advice to all of you to reject the morals of the
bestseller society and to find, to start with, your reward in your own
fun. This is quite feasible, for the challenge of simplification is so
fascinating that, if we do our job properly, we shall have the greatest
fun in the world.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Remember: you are alone. Every time you can get help from someone,
it is an opportunity: you should eagerly size it. But then, promptly
return to normal mode: you are alone and you must be prepared to solve
every problem yourself.
-- Eric Kedji

Making All Software Into Tools Reduces Risk.
-- Anonymous

Some may say Ruby is a bad rip-off of Lisp or Smalltalk, and I admit
that. But it is nicer to ordinary people.
-- Matz

C and Lisp stand at opposite ends of the spectrum; they're each great at
what the other one sucks at.
-- Steve Yegge

Two people should stay together if together they are better people than
they would be individually.
-- Anonymous

To the optimist, the glass is half full. To the pessimist, the glass is
half empty. To the engineer, the glass is twice as big as it needs to
be.
-- Anonymous

It is practically impossible to teach good programming to students that
have had a prior exposure to BASIC: as potential programmers they are
mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Whatever is worth doing at all, is worth doing well.
-- Earl of Chesterfield

Rules of Optimization:
Rule 1: Don’t do it.
Rule 2 (for experts only): Don’t do it yet.
-- M.A. Jackson

More computing sins are committed in the name of efficiency (without
necessarily achieving it) than for any other single reason - including
blind stupidity.
-- W.A. Wulf

We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time:
premature optimization is the root of all evil.
-- Donald Knuth

The best is the enemy of the good.
-- Voltaire

The job of a leader today is not to create followers. It’s to create
more leaders.
-- Ralph Nader

The president was visiting NASA headquarters and stopped to talk to a
man who was holding a mop. “And what do you do?” he asked. The man, a
janitor, replied, “I’m helping to put a man on the moon, sir.”
-- The little book of leadership

Only make new mistakes.
-- Phil Dourado

You can recognize truth by its beauty and simplicity. When you get it
right, it is obvious that it is right.
-- Richard Feynman

Talkers are no good doers.
-- William Shakespeare

Photography is painting with light.
-- Eric Hamilton

Good artists copy. Great artists steal.
-- Pablo Picasso

A guideline in the process of stepwise refinement should be the
principle to decompose decisions as much as possible, to untangle
aspects which are only seemingly interdependent, and to defer those
decisions which concern details of representation as long as possible.
-- Niklaus Wirth

Vigorous writing is concise. A sentence should contain no unnecessary
words, a paragraph no unnecessary sentences, for the same reason that a
drawing should have no unnecessary lines and a machine no unnecessary
parts. This requires not that the writer make all sentences short or
avoid all detail and treat subjects only in outline, but that every word
tell.
-- William Strunk, Jr.

The problem is that small examples fail to convince, and large examples
are too big to follow.
-- Steve Yegge

We are the sum of our behaviours; excellence therefore is not an act but
a habit.
-- Aristotle

The purpose of abstraction is not to be vague, but to create a new
semantic level in which one can be absolutely precise.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Every man prefers belief to the exercise of judgment.
-- Seneca

It’s hard to grasp abstractions if you don’t understand what they’re
abstracting away from.
-- Nathan Weizenbaum

That is one of the most distinctive differences between school and the
real world: there is no reward for putting in a good effort. In fact,
the whole concept of a "good effort" is a fake idea adults invented to
encourage kids. It is not found in nature.
-- Paul Graham

I find that the harder I work, the more luck I seem to have.
-- Thomas Jefferson

Don't stay in bed, unless you can make money in bed.
-- George Burns

If everything seems under control, you're not going fast enough.
-- Mario Andretti

Chance favors the prepared mind.
-- Louis Pasteur

Controlling complexity is the essence of computer programming.
-- Brian Kernighan

The function of good software is to make the complex appear to be
simple.
-- Grady Booch

Programmers are in a race with the Universe to create bigger and better
idiot-proof programs, while the Universe is trying to create bigger and
better idiots. So far the Universe is winning.
-- Rich Cook

A hacker on a roll may be able to produce–in a period of a few
months–something that a small development group (say, 7-8 people) would
have a hard time getting together over a year. IBM used to report that
certain programmers might be as much as 100 times as productive as other
workers, or more.
-- Peter Seebach

The best programmers are not marginally better than merely good ones.
They are an order-of-magnitude better, measured by whatever standard:
conceptual creativity, speed, ingenuity of design, or problem-solving
ability.
-- Randall E. Stross

A great lathe operator commands several times the wage of an average
lathe operator, but a great writer of software code is worth 10,000
times the price of an average software writer.
-- Bill Gates

Measuring programming progress by lines of code is like measuring
aircraft building progress by weight.
-- Bill Gates

First learn computer science and all the theory. Next develop a
programming style. Then forget all that and just hack.
-- George Carrette

To iterate is human, to recurse divine.
-- L. Peter Deutsch

The best thing about a boolean is even if you are wrong, you are only
off by a bit.
-- Anonymous

Should array indices start at 0 or 1? My compromise of 0.5 was rejected
without, I thought, proper consideration.
-- Stan Kelly-Bootle

The use of COBOL cripples the mind; its teaching should therefore be
regarded as a criminal offense.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

It is practically impossible to teach good programming style to students
that have had prior exposure to BASIC. As potential programmers, they
are mentally mutilated beyond hope of regeneration.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

One of the main causes of the fall of the Roman Empire was that–lacking
zero–they had no way to indicate successful termination of their C
programs.
-- Robert Firth

Saying that Java is nice because it works on all OSes is like saying
that anal sex is nice because it works on all genders.
-- Alanna

If Java had true garbage collection, most programs would delete
themselves upon execution.
-- Robert Sewell

Software is like sex: It’s better when it’s free.
-- Linus Torvalds

Any code of your own that you haven’t looked at for six or more months
might as well have been written by someone else.
-- Eagleson’s Law

Good programmers use their brains, but good guidelines save us having to
think out every case.
-- Francis Glassborow

Considering the current sad state of our computer programs, software
development is clearly still a black art, and cannot yet be called an
engineering discipline.
-- Bill Clinton

If debugging is the process of removing bugs, then programming must be
the process of putting them in.
-- Edsger W. Dijkstra

Always code as if the guy who ends up maintaining your code will be a
violent psychopath who knows where you live.
-- Martin Golding

Everything that can be invented has been invented.
-- Charles H. Duell

I think there’s a world market for about 5 computers.
-- Thomas J. Watson

It would appear that we have reached the limits of what it is possible
to achieve with computer technology, although one should be careful with
such statements, as they tend to sound pretty silly in 5 years.
-- John Von Neumann

But what is it good for?
-- Engineer at IBM

There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home.
-- Ken Olson

640K ought to be enough for anybody.
-- Bill Gates

Windows NT addresses 2 Gigabytes of RAM, which is more than any
application will ever need.
-- Microsoft

We will never become a truly paper-less society until the Palm Pilot
folks come out with WipeMe 1.0.
-- Andy Pierson

If it keeps up, man will atrophy all his limbs but the push-button
finger.
-- Frank Lloyd Wright

Functional programming is like describing your problem to a
mathematician. Imperative programming is like giving instructions to
an idiot.
-- arcus

Its a shame that the students of our generation grew up with windows and
mice because that tainted our mindset not to think in terms of powerful
tools. Some of us are just so tainted that we will never recover.
-- Jeffrey Mark Siskind

Lisp is a programmable programming language.
-- John Foderaro

I guess, when you're drunk, every woman looks beautiful and every
language looks (like) a Lisp :)
-- Lament

Many of life's failures are people who did not realize how close they
were to success when they gave up.
-- Thomas A. Edison

You must always work not just within but below your means. If you can
handle three elements, handle only two. If you can handle ten, then
handle five. In that way the ones you do handle, you handle with more
ease, more mastery and you create a feeling of strength in reserve.
-- Pablo Picasso

When you’ve got the code all ripped apart, it’s like a car that’s all
disassembled. You’ve got all the parts tying all over your garage and
you have to replace the broken part or the car will never run. It’s not
fun until the code gets back to the baseline again.
-- Gary Kildall


Well, if you talk about programming to a group of programmers who use
the same language, they can become almost evangelistic about the
language. They form a tight-knit community, hold to certain beliefs, and
follow certain rules in their programming. It’s like a church with a
programming language for a Bible.
-- Gary Kildall

It’s a problem if the design doesn’t let you add features at a later
date. If you have to redo a program, the hours you spend can cause you
to lose your competitive edge. A flexible program demonstrates the
difference between a good designer and someone who is just getting a
piece of code out.
-- Gary Kildall

[How friendly will this machine be?] Well, I don’t think it’s a matter
of friendliness, because ultimately if the program is going to
accomplish anything of value, it will probably be relatively complex.
-- Gary Kildall

Some people suggest that machines would be friendlier if input could be
in a natural language. But natural language is probably the worst kind
of input because it can be quite ambiguous. The process of retrieving
information from the computer would be so time-consuming that you would
be better off spending that time getting the information directly from
an expert.
-- Gary Kildall

The only way of discovering the limits of the possible is to venture a
little way past them into the impossible.
-- Arthur C. Clarke

Any sufficiently advanced technology is undistinguishable from magic.
-- Arthur C. Clarke

That is the inevitable human response. We’re reluctant to believe that
great discoveries are in the air. We want to believe that great
discoveries are in our heads—and to each party in the multiple the
presence of the other party is invariably cause for suspicion.
-- Malcolm Gladwell

Good ideas are out there for anyone with the wit and the will to find
them.
-- Malcolm Gladwell

A person won't become proficient at something until he or she has done
it many times. In other words., if you want someone to be really good at
building a software system, he or she will have to have built 10 or more
systems of that type.
-- Philip Greenspun

A person won't retain proficiency at a task unless he or she has at one
time learned to perform that task very rapidly. Learning research
demonstrates that the skills of people who become accurate but not fast
deteriorate much sooner than the skills of people who become both
accurate and fast.
-- Philip Greenspun

Training research shows that if you get speed now you can get quality
later. But if you don't get speed you will never get quality in the long
run.
-- Philip Greenspun

Beware of bugs in the above code; I have only proved it correct, not
tried it.
-- Donald Knuth

Wear your best for your execution and stand dignified. Your last
recourse against randomness is how you act — if you can’t control
outcomes, you can control the elegance of your behaviour. You will
always have the last word.
-- Nassim Nicholas Taleb

The human brain starts working the moment you are born and never stops
until you stand up to speak in public.
-- Anonymous

The trouble with the world is that the stupid are always cocksure and
the intelligent are always filled with doubt.
-- Bertrand Russell

Simple, clear purpose and principles give rise to complex, intelligent
behavior. Complex rules and regulations give rise to simple, stupid
behavior.
-- Dee Hock

C++ is like teenage sex: Everybody is talking about it all the time,
only few are really doing it.
-- Anonymous

Functional programming is to algorithms as the ubiquitous little black
dress is to women's fashion.
-- Mark Tarver

Java and C++ make you think that the new ideas are like the old ones.
Java is the most distressing thing to hit computing since MS-DOS.
-- Alan Kay

For complex systems, the compiler and development environment need to be
in the same language that its supporting. It's the only way to grow
code.
-- Alan Kay

Simple things should be simple. Complex things should be possible.
-- Alan Kay

I invented the term Object-Oriented, and I can tell you I did not have
C++ in mind.
-- Alan Kay

All creativity is an extended form of a joke.
-- Alan Kay

If you don't fail at least 90 percent of the time, you're not aiming
high enough.
-- Alan Kay

Revolutions come from standing on the shoulders of giants and facing in
a better direction.
-- Alan Kay

Ce n’est que par les beaux sentiments qu’on parvient à la fortune!
[It is only by beautiful feelings that one arrives at fortune!]
-- Charles Baudelaire

La haine est une liqueur précieuse, un poison plus cher que celui des
Borgia, - car il est fait avec notre sang, notre santé, notre sommeil,
et les deux tiers de notre amour! Il faut en être avare!
[Hate is a precious liquor, a poison more expensive than that of
Borgia, - because it is made with our blood, our health, our sleep,
and two-thirds of our love! You must be stingy!]
-- Charles Baudelaire

L’art qui satisfait le besoin le plus impérieux sera toujours le plus
honoré.
[The art that satisfies the most compelling need will always be the most
honored.]
-- Charles Baudelaire

If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it's
a duck.
-- Official definition of "duck typing"

In OO, it's the data that is the "important" thing: you define the class
which contains member data, and only incidentally contains code for
manipulating the object. In FP, it's the code that's important: you
define a function which contains code for working with the data, and
only incidentally define what the data is.
-- almkgor

Des mots simples, quand ils sont bien utilisés, font faire à des gens
ordinaires des choses extraordinaires.
[Simple words, when they are well used, make people do
extraordinary things.]
-- Khaled Tangao

It was Edison who said ‘1% inspiration, 99% perspiration’. That may have
been true a hundred years ago. These days it's ‘0.01% inspiration,
99.99% perspiration’, and the inspiration is the easy part.
-- Linus Torvalds

The greatest challenge to any thinker is stating the problem in a way
that will allow a solution.
-- Bertrand Russell

No matter how much you plan you’re likely to get half wrong anyway. So
don’t do the ‘paralysis through analysis’ thing. That only slows
progress and saps morale.
-- 37 Signal, Getting real

[Innovation] comes from saying no to 1,000 things to make sure we don’t
get on the wrong track or try to do too much. We’re always thinking
about new markets we could enter, but it’s only by saying no that you
can concentrate on the things that are really important.
-- Steve Jobs

The ability to simplify means to eliminate the unnecessary so that the
necessary may speak.
-- Hans Hofmann

However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the
results.
-- Winston Churchill

Genius is 1% inspiration and 99% perspiration.
-- Thomas A. Edison

I’d rather write programs to write programs than write programs.
-- Richard Sites

Heureux l'étudiant qui comme la Rivière peut suivre son cours sans
quitter son lit...
[Happy the student who like the River can follow his course without
to leave his bed ...]
-- Sebastien

Side projects are less masturbatory than reading RSS, often more
useful than MobileMe, more educational than the comments on Reddit,
and usually more fun than listening to keynotes.
-- Chris Wanstrath

:nunmap can also be used outside of a monastery.
-- Vim user manual

I had to learn how to teach less, so that more could be learned.
-- Tim Gallwey

Workers of the world, the chains that bind you are not held in place by
a ruling class, a "superior" race, by society, the state, or a leader.
They are held in place by none other than yourself. Those who seek to
exploit are not themselves free, for they place no value in freedom. Who
is it that really employs you and commands you to pick up your daily
load? And who is it that you allow to pass judgment on the adequacy of
your toil? Who have you empowered to dangle the carrot before you and
threaten with disapproval? Who, when you wake each morning, sends you
off to what you call your work?
Is there an "I want to" behind all your "I have to," or have you been so
long forgotten to yourself that "I want" exists only as an idea in your
head? If you have disconnected from your soul's desire and are drowning
in an ocean of "have to," then rise up and overthrow your master. Begin
the journey toward emancipation. Work only in such a way that you are
truly self-employed.
-- Tim Gallwey

The Work Begins Anew, The Hope Rises Again, And The Dream Lives On.
-- Ted Kennedy

The hardest part of design ... is keeping features out.
-- Donald Norman

Before software can be reusable it first has to be usable.
-- Ralph Johnson

The opposite of love is not hate, it is indifference.
-- Elie Wiesel

- Gbi de fer
- Howa!
- On va en France
- Non, je vais pas!
- Pourquoi?
- Parce ki y a pas agouti là-bas!
[- Iron Gbi
- Howa!
- We're going to France
- No, I'm not going!
- Why?
- Because there was no agouti there!]
-- Gbi de fer

Ecoute, crois en ton projet... Implique toi à fond... Trouve des aspects
innovants pour te distinguer des autres. Tu verras que tu te feras
remarquer très facilement...
[Listen, believe in your project ... Get involved ... Find aspects
innovative to distinguish you from others. You will see that you will do
notice very easily ...]
-- Khaled Tangao

Perpetual optimism is a force multiplier.
-- Colin Powell

Be the change you want to see in the world.
-- Mahatma Gandhi

The art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he
wants to do it [Leadership].
-- Dwight D. Eisenhower

No one is all evil. Everybody has a good side. If you keep waiting, it
will comme up.
-- Randy Pausch

Experience is what you get when you don't get what you want.
-- Randy Pausch

Luck is where preparation meets opportunity.
-- Randy Pausch

Bonne bosse et reste le boss.
-- Darryl Amedon

The greatest of all weaknesses is the fear of appearing weak.
-- J. B. Bossuet

It's easier to ask forgiveness than it is to get permission.
-- Rear Admiral Dr. Grace Hopper

An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.
-- Benjamin Franklin

Natives who beat drums to drive off evil spirits are objects of scorn to
smart Americans who blow horns to break up traffic jams.
-- Mary Ellen Kelly

A CS professor once explained recursion as follows:
A child couldn't sleep, so her mother told her a story about a little frog,
 who couldn't sleep, so the frog's mother told her a story about a little bear,
 who couldn't sleep, so the bear's mother told her a story about a little weasel...
 who fell asleep.
 ...and the little bear fell asleep;
 ...and the little frog fell asleep;
...and the child fell asleep.
-- Anonymous

Never do the impossible. People will expect you to do it forever after.
-- Anonymous

Hire people smarter than you. Work with people smarter than you.
Listen to them. Let them lead you. Take the blame for all failures,
give away the credit for all successes.
-- How to fail: 25 secrets learned through failure

Give up control. You never really had it anyway.
-- How to fail: 25 secrets learned through failure

Ne te mets pas de limite, la vie se chargera de la mettre a ta place.
[Do not limit yourself, life will take care of putting it in your place.]
-- Darryl Amedon

Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity. And I'm not so
sure about the former.
-- Albert Einstein

The important thing is not to stop questioning.
-- Albert Einstein

Do not accept anything because it comes from the mouth of a respected person.
-- Buddha

Work as intensely as you play and play as intensely as you work.
-- Eric S. Raymond

A witty saying proves nothing
-- Voltaire

Sound methodology can empower and liberate the creative mind; it cannot inflame
or inspire the drudge.
-- Frederick P. Brooks

La connaissance d'un défaut ne l'enlève pas, elle nous torture jusqu'à sa
correction.
[The knowledge of a defect does not remove it, it tortures us to its
correction.]
-- Daniel Ludwin

Je crois au flooding.
[I believe in flooding.]
-- Karim Baina

Il y a très loin de la velléité à la volnt, de la volonté à la résolution, de la
résolution au choix des moyens, du choix ds moyens à lapplication.
[There is very far from the vague desire to volunt, from the will to the resolution, from the
resolution to the choice of the means, from the choice of means to the application.]
-- Jean-François Paul de Gondi de Retz

Do not spoil what you have by desiring what you have not; but remember that what
you now have was once among the things only hoped for.
-- Greek philosopher Epicurus

Nobody can make you feel inferior without your consent.
-- Eleanor Roosevelt

If you tell the truth, you don't have to remember anything.
-- Mark Twain

You know you're in love when you can't fall asleep because reality is finally
better than your dreams.
-- Dr. Seuss

The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference.
-- Elie Wiesel

Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.
-- John Lennon

Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it is time to pause and
reflect.
-- Mark Twain

To be yourself in a world that is constantly trying to make you something else
is the greatest accomplishment.
-- Ralph Waldo Emerson

It is not a lack of love, but a lack of friendship that makes unhappy marriages.
-- Friedrich Nietzsche

In terms of energy, it's better to make a wrong choice than none at all.
-- George Leonard

Courage is grace under pressure.
-- Ernest Hemingway

Actually, the essence of boredom is to be found in the obsessive search for
novelty. Satisfaction lies in mindful repetition, the discovery of endless
richness in subtle variations on familiar themes.
-- George Leonard

Before enlightenment, chop wood and carry water.
After enlightenment, chop wood and carry water.
-- Anonymous

Acknowledging the negative doesn't mean sniveling [whining, complaining]; it
means facing the truth and then moving on.
-- George Leonard

Whatever you can do, or dream you can, begin it. Boldness has genius, power, and
magic in it.
-- Goethe

What we choose to fight is so tiny!
What fights us is so great!
...
When we win it's with small things,
and the triumph itself makes us small.
...
Winning does not tempt that man.
This is how he grows: by being defeated, decisively,
by constantly greater beings.
-- Rainer Maria Rilke

We fail to realize that mastery is not about perfection. It's about a process,
a journey. The master is the one who stays on the path day after day, year after
year. The master is the one who is willing to try, and fail, and try again, for
as long as he or she lives.
-- George Leonard

Are you willing to wear your white belt?
-- George Leonard


To be a leader, you must
stand for something,
or you will fall for anything.
-- Anthony Pagano

Courage is facing your fears.
Stupidity is fearing nothing.
-- Todd Bellemare

Don’t you get it?
This very second you could be
doing something you love and
dream about doing. So do it!
NOW!
-- Anonymous

The spirit, the will to win,
and the will to excel are the things
that endure. These qualities are so
much more important than the
events that occur.
-- Vince Lombardi

Accept the past for what it was.
Acknowledge the present for what
it is. Anticipate the future for
what it can become.
-- Tracy L. McNair

Successful people tend to become
more successful because
they are always thinking about
their successes.
-- Brian Tracy

To be a winner, all you have to
give is all you have.
-- Anonymous

If we are to achieve results never
before accomplished, we must
expect to employ methods never
before attempted.
-- Anonymous

The size of your success depends
on the depth of your desire.
Each day we must strive for
constant and never ending
improvement.
-- Anthony Robbins

In every problem there is a
hidden treasure inside.
It’s your job to find it.
-- Anonymous

Fear is met and destroyed with
courage. Again and again when the
struggle seems hopeless and all
opportunity lost, the one with a
little more courage, and a little more
effort will have victory.
-- James F. Bell

Anyone who has never made a
mistake has never tried anything
-- Albert Einstein

Without ambition no conquests
are made, and no business created.
Ambition is the root of all
achievement.
-- James Champy

Cause change and lead;
accept change and survive;
resist change and die.
-- Ray Norda

To change bad habits, we must
study the habits of successful role
models.
-- Anonymous

The achievement of one goal
should be the starting point of
another.
-- Alexander Graham Bell

People are anxious to improve
their circumstances, but are
unwilling to improve themselves.
That is why they remain bound.
-- James Allen

Concentrated thoughts produce
desired results.
-- Zig Ziglar

Genius is divine perseverance.
Genius I cannot have, but
perseverance all can have.
-- Woodrow Wilson

I do believe I am special. My
special gift is my vision, my
commitment, and my willingness
to do whatever it takes.
-- Anthony Robbins

Man is what he believes.
-- Anton Chekov

The starting point of all
achievement is desire. Keep this
constantly in mind. Weak desire
brings weak results, just as
a small amount of Are makes
a small amount of heat.
-- Napoleon Hill

It is the mind that makes good or
ill. That which makes us happy
or sad; rich or poor.
-- Edmund Spenser

Failure is merely part of the
process necessary for success.
-- Anonymous

There are no failures in life, only
those who give up to soon.
-- Anonymous

The door to success is the one
marked PUSH.
-- Anonymous

Don’t wish for it... work for it!
-- Anonymous

There is no shortcut.
Victory lies in overcoming
obstacles everyday.
-- Anonymous

The key to achievement is
being a How thinker and
not an If thinker.
-- Anonymous

If I had to select one quality and
one personal characteristic that I
regard as being most highly
correlated with success, whatever
the field, I would pick persistence
I and determination. The will to
endure to the end, to get knocked
down seventy times and
get up off the floor saying,
“Here comes number seventy one”.
-- Richard M. Devos

Discovery lies in seeing what
everyone sees, but thinking what
know one has thought.
-- Anonymous

Life is built of the things we do.
The only constructive material is
positive action.
-- Anonymous

Be courageous! Have faith!
Go forward.
-- Thomas A. Edison

The actual is limited, the
possibilities immense.
-- LaMartine

Stay focused and stay curious.
Do what you say you will do.
-- Anonymous

Always keep a window open in
your mind for new ideas.
-- Anonymous

I maintained my edge by always
being a student; you will always
have something new to learn.
-- Jackie Joyner Kersee

Keys to success: Research your
ideas, plan for success, expect
success, and just do it.
-- John S. Hinds

All of our dreams can come true
if we have the courage to
pursue them.
-- Walt Disney

To succeed, you need to take that
gut feeling in what you believe and
act on it with all of your heart.
-- Anonymous

The only thing you have to fear
is not giving 100%.
There are no limitations to any
of our dreams.
-- Gene Simmons

To be successful you must decide
exactly what you want to
accomplish, and then resolve to
pay the price to get it.
-- Bunker Hunt

Believe... and the
magic will follow.
-- Anonymous

Success is not where you are in
life, but the obstacles you have
overcome.
-- Booker T. Washington

Action may not bring happiness,
but there is no happiness
without action.
-- William James

Life is an adventure! Live it while
you can. You can never have
today again, tomorrow only comes
once, and yesterday is gone forev-
er. Make your choice wisely, then
life the adventure you create.
-- Anonymous

Our intentions create our reality.
-- Dr. Wayne W. Dyer

Things that matter most must
never be at the mercy of things
that matter least.
-- Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

The majority of men meet with
failure because of their lack of per
sistence in creating new plans to
take the place of those that fail.
-- Napoleon Hill

Your income rarely exceeds your
personal development.
-- Jim Rohn

You are the architect of your own
destiny; you are the master of your
own fate; you are behind the steering
wheel of your life. There are no
limitations to what you can do, have, or
be. Accept the limitations you place on
yourself by your own thinking.
-- Brian Tracy

You must learn from your past
mistakes, but not lean on your
past successes.
-- Denis Waitley

We will either find a way or
make one.
-- Hannibal

Money itself won’t bring
happiness, but it sure makes
paying the bills easier.
-- Thomas J. Vilord

Habit is either the best of servants
or the worst of masters.
-- Anonymous

Hold yourself to a higher
standard than anybody else
expects of you.
-- Nathaniel Emmons

We lift ourselves by our thoughts.
We climb upon our vision of
ourselves.
-- Orison Swett Marden

Imagination is more important
than knowledge.
-- Albert Einstein

The price of excellence is disci-
pline. The cost of mediocrity is
disappointment.
-- William W. Ward

Wealth is the product of a man’s
ability to think.
-- Ayn Rand

The great end of life is not
knowledge, but action.
-- Thomas Henry Huxley

Success is neither a high jump nor
a long jump; it is the steps of a
marathon.
-- Anonymous

Take up one idea and act on it.
Make that one idea your life. Think
of it, dream of it, and live on that
idea. Let the brain, muscles, nerves,
and every part of your body be full of |
that idea and leave all other ideas
alone. This is the way to success.
-- Anonymous

Successful people do what
unsuccessful people dare not to.
-- Anonymous

Without a goal, discipline is
nothing but self-punishment.
Never let a day pass that will
make you say, "I will do better
tomorrow".
-- Anonymous

Become a possibilitarian. No matter
how dark things seem to be or
actually are, raise your sights and see
the possibilities - always see them, for
they are always there.
-- Norman Vincent Peale

Real success is not having things,
but having victory over yourself.
-- Anonymous

I haven’t failed; I have just found
10,000 ways that didn’t work.
-- Thomas A. Edison

Courage is not the absence of fear,
but rather the judgment that
something else is more important
than one’s fear.
-- Ambrose Redmoon

The men who succeed are the
efficient few. They are the few
who have the ambition and will
power to develop themselves.
-- Herbert N. Casson

We do not know who we are until
we see what we can do.
-- Martha Grimes

Your dreams come true when you
act to turn them into realities.
-- Anonymous

Opportunities are usually
disguised by hard work, so most
people don't recognize them.
-- Ann Landers

Don't be afraid of the space
between your dreams and reality.
If you can dream it, you can
make it so.
-- Belva Davis

You don't have to be a fantastic hero
to do certain things to
compete. You can just be an
ordinary person, sufficiently
motivated to reach challenging goals.
-- Sir Edmund Hillary

If you proclaim it and believe it,
you will absolutely achieve it.
-- Anonymous

Luck is when preparedness meets
opportunity.
-- Earl Nightingale

When you get into a tighter place
and everything goes against you, until
it seems as though you could not hang
on a minute longer, it is then when
you should never give up, for that is
just the place and time when the tide
will turn.
-- Harriet Beecher Stowe

It takes no more effort to expect
the best, than to fear for the worst.
-- Anonymous

It had long since come to my
attention that people of
accomplishment rarely sat back and
let things happen to them. They went
out and made things happen.
-- Anonymous

Dreams are renewable. No matter
what our age or condition, there
are still untapped possibilities
within us, and a new beauty
waiting to be born.
-- Dr. Dale Turner

Hope sees the invisible, feels the
intangible, and achieves the
impossible.
-- Charles Caleb Colton

Life begets life. Energy creates
energy. It is by spending oneself
that one becomes rich.
-- Sarah Bernhardt

It is our duty as men and women
to proceed as though the limits of
our abilities do not exist.
-- Pierre Teilhard de Chardin

Living never wore one out so
much as the effort not to live.
-- Anais Nin

Men of genius are admired, men of
wealth are envied, men of
power are feared, but only men
of character are trusted.
-- Zig Ziglar

If you are not happy every
morning when you get up, leave for
work, or start to work at home, and
are not enthusiastic about doing
that, you will not be successful.
-- Donald M. Kendall

You can change the way you feel
When you believe in yourself and
by changing the way you think.
dream big, anything is possible.
-- Anonymous

Strength does not come from
winning. Your struggles develop
your strength. When you go
through hardship and decide not
to surrender, that is strength.
-- Arnold Schwarzenegger

If you continue to work hard,
success will follow you.
-- Anonymous

If you want your dreams to come
true then WAKE UP!
-- Anonymous

Success is to stand in the presence
of God unashamed.
-- Anonymous

If you always do what you've
always done, you'll always be what
you are now.
A habit is like a cable: we weave a
thread of it everyday, and at last
we cannot break it - so we must
form good, positive, and
productive habits.
-- Horace Mann

What is fear? F= false, E= evi-
dence, A= appearing, R= real.
Don’t be afraid of any false
evidence and just do it.
-- Anonymous

Live your imagination,
not your history.
-- Stephen Covy

You don’t have to be great to get
started, but you have to get started
to be great.
-- Les Brown

Dream big dreams. Only big
dreams have the power to
move men’s souls.
-- Marais Aurelius

A person with a clear purpose
will make progress on even the
roughest road. A person with no
purpose will make no progress
even on the smoothest road.
-- Thomas Carlyle

I am the captain of my soul. I am
the master of my fate.
-- Anonymous

When you start doing what you
love to do, you will never work
another day in your life.
-- William Henley

The harder I work,
the luckier I get.
-- James Thurber

Thought is the original source of
all wealth, all success, all material
gain, all great discoveries and
inventions, and all achievement.
-- Claude M. Bristol

Continuous learning is the
minimum requirement for
success in any field!
-- Denis Waitley

Self-discipline is the ability
to make yourself do what you
should do, when you should do it,
whether you feel like it or not.
-- Elbert Hubbard

If you want to double your success
rate, you need to double your
failure rate.
-- Thomas John Watson, Sr.

Don’t think problem, think
opportunity.
-- Anonymous

Excellence is attained when
you care more than others think is
wise; risk more than others think
is safe; dream more than others
think is practical; expect more
than others think is possible.
-- Jim Gentil

If you worry about yesterday’s
failures, then today’s
successes will be few.
-- Anonymous

Don’t start the day until you have
it finished. Don’t start the week
until you have it finished. Don’t
start the month until you have it
finished. Plan your day.
-- Jim Rohn

Never let the fear of striking out
get in your way.
-- Babe Ruth

Be absolutely determined to enjoy
what you do.
There is always, always, always
something to be thankful for.
-- Gerry Sikorski

Aim for the top, for there is plenty
of room up there. There are so
few at the top it is almost
lonely there.
-- Anonymous

Some people dream of success,
while others wake up and work
hard at it!
-- Anonymous

From a certain point onward
there is no longer any turning
back. That is the point that must
be reached.
-- Franz Kafka

Decide what you want, and decide
what you are willing to exchange
for it. Establish your priorities
and go to work.
-- H.L. Hunt

Nothing can stop the man with
the right mental attitude from
achieving his goal; nothing on
earth can help the man with the
wrong mental attitude.
-- Thomas Jefferson

My philosophy in life is this:
if we make up our mind what we
are going to make of our lives,
then work hard toward that goal,
we never lose - somehow we
win out.
-- Ronald Reagan

If a person gets his attitude
towards money straight, it will
straighten out almost every
other area in his life.
-- Billy Graham

Only those who dare to fail greatly
can ever achieve greatly.
-- Robert Francis Kennedy

It is time for us all to stand and
cheer for the do’er, the achiever
- the one who recognizes the
challenge and does something
about it.
-- Vince Lombardi

Achievement is largely the product
of steadily raising one’s levels of
aspirations and expectations.
-- Anonymous

Someone has defined genius as
intensity of purpose: the ability to
do, the patience to wait. Put these
together and you have
achievement.
-- Leo J. Muir

Do not let what you cannot do
interfere with what you can do.
-- John Wooden

Act as though it is impossible
to fail.
The more goals you set,
the more goals you get.
-- Mark Victor Hansen

An unfailing success plan: at each
day’s end, write down the six most
important things to do tomorrow;
number them in order of
importance, and DO them.
No planning will work unless
we take action.
-- Anonymous

Man is always more than he can
know of himself; consequently, his
accomplishments, time and again,
will come as a surprise to him.
-- Golo Mann

For every problem there is an
opportunity.
The harder you fall, the higher
you bounce.
-- Anonymous

God’s gifts put man’s best dreams
to shame.
-- Elizabeth Barrett Browning

Take a moment to reflect and
recharge; its time well spent.
-- Anonymous

Your thoughts become your
words. Your words become your
actions. Your actions become your
habits. Your habits become your
character. Character is everything.
-- Frank Outlaw

Seek not outside yourself for
success lies within.
-- Mary Lou Cook

In order to succeed you must fail
so you know what to do better
the next time.
-- Anthony D’Angelo

Stumbling is not the same as
falling.
-- Anonymous

The major reason for setting a
goal is for what it makes of you to
accomplish it. What it makes of
you will always be the far greater
value than what you get.
-- Jim Rohn

Climb high, climb far, your goal
the sky, your aim the stars.
-- Anonymous

To achieve, you must believe
something and want something
with all your might. Then you
must be willing to commit
yourself to a course.
-- Anonymous

Above all, life should be fun.
-- Anonymous

Keep on trying... each failure is
one step closer to a success.
-- Thomas J. Vilord

Attitude determines altitude.
-- Anonymous

If you change anything about
the way you approach selling, the
thing that would make the biggest
difference would be your attitude
your attitude toward your customer,
your service, the benefits of your
products, your employer,
and yourself.
-- Dan Brent Burnt

For a righteous man falls seven
times and rises again.
-- Proverbs 24:16

What counts is not necessarily the
size of the dog in the fight, but the
size of the fight in the dog.
-- General Dwight Eisenhower

The more you prospect, the more
you prosper.
-- Steve Johnson

The most important thing is to
know that you can do it.
-- Robert G. Allen

Before success comes in any
man’s life, he is sure to meet with
much temporary defeat, and perhaps
some failures. When defeat overtakes a
man, the easiest and most logical thing
to do is to quit. That is what the
majority of men do. That is why the
majority is just ordinary.
-- Napoleon Hill

Throw back the shoulders, let the
heart sing, let the eyes flash, let
the mind be lifted up, look
upward and say to yourself,
“Nothing is impossible!!!”
-- Norman Vincent Peale

The real secret to success is
enthusiasm.
-- Walter Chrysler

Whenever I hear it can’t be done,
I know I am close to success.
-- Michael Flatley

You always pass failure on the
way to success.
-- Mickey Rooney

Formulate and stamp
indelibly on your mind a mental
picture of yourself as succeeding.
Hold this picture tenaciously and
never permit it to fade. Your mind
will seek to develop this picture!
-- Norman Vincent Peale

A minute of success pays for
years of failure.
-- Robert Browning

Your talent is God’s gift to you.
What you do with it is your gift
back to God.
-- Leo Buscaglia

Don’t go through life,
GROW through life.
-- Eric Butterworth

I have heard it said that the first
ingredient of success, the earliest
spark in the dreaming youth is
this: dream a great dream.
-- Anonymous

Vision is the art of seeing things
that are not yet visible.
-- Jonathan Swift

You must do the things you
think you cannot do.
-- Eleanor Roosevelt

One must have strategies to
execute dreams.
The truth is that all of us can
attain the greatest success and
happiness possible in this life
whenever we use our native
capacities to its greatest extent.
-- Smiley Blanton

Never let your failures go to
your heart or your successes
go to your head.
-- Anonymous

Studies indicate that the one quality
all successful people have is persistence.
They are willing to spend more time
accomplishing a task and to persevere in the
face of many difficult odds. There is a very
positive relationship between people’s
ability to accomplish any task and the time
they are willing to spend on it.
-- Dr. Joyce Brothers

Behind every successful man
stands a surprised mother-in-law.
-- Hubert H. Humphrey

There are no speed limits on the
road to success.
The men who try to do something
and fail are infinitely better than
those who do nothing and succeed.
-- David W. Johnson

You've got to say, "I think that if
I keep working at this and want
it badly enough, I can have it."
It's called perseverance.
-- Lee Iacocca

Intelligence without ambition is
like a bird without wings.
-- C. Archie Danielson

Those who are quite satisfied sit
still and do nothing; those who are
not quite satisfied are the sole
benefactors of the world.
-- Walter Savage Landor

There is no great success
without great commitment.
The one thing worse than a
quitter is the person who is
afraid to begin.
-- Anonymous

We make a living by what we
get, but we make a life by
what we give.
-- Winston Churchill

Take heed: you do not find
Failing to plan is planning
what you do not seek.
to fail.
-- Anonymous

Once a man has made a commitment to a way of life, he puts the greatest
strength in the world behind him. It's something we call heart power.
Once a man has made this commitment, nothing will stop him
short of success.
-- Vince Lombardi

It is a fabulous country, the only
fabulous country; it is the only
place where miracles not only
happen, but they happen all of the
time.
-- Thomas Wol

“I can’t do it” never accomplished
anything; “I will try” has
performed miracles.
-- George P. Burnham 1

The great accomplishments of
Throughout the centuries there
man have resulted from the
have been men who took the first
transmission of ideas, into
steps down new roads armed with
enthusiasm, into actions.
nothing but their own vision.
-- Thomas J. Watson

You can often measure a man
by the size of his dreams.
-- Robert H. Schuller

The uncommon man is merely
the common man thinking and
dreaming of success in larger
terms and in more
fruitful areas.
-- Melvin Powers

The poorest man in the world
is not a man without a cent
to his name, but it’s the man
who does not have a dream.
-- Anonymous

The recipe of success is to study
while others are sleeping, work
while others are loafing, prepare
while others are playing, and
dream while others are wishing.
-- William A. Ward

The very essence of leadership
is having vision.
-- Father Theodore Hesburg

Success comes to those who
make it happen, not those who
let it happen.
In the marathon of life, success
calls for dedication to the goal,
perseverance, compassion for my
fellow man, and faith in God.
-- John A. Kelley

Courage is daring to take the
first step, or a different path.
It is the decision to place your
dreams above your fears.
Wherever you see a successful
business, someone once made
courageous decision.
-- Peter Drucker

The currents that determine
our dreams and shape our lives,
flow from the attitudes that
we nurture everyday.
Happiness, wealth, and success
are the byproducts of goal setting;
they cannot be the goals
themselves.
-- Denis Waitley

This is the beginning of a new
day. You have been given this
day to use as you will. You can
waste it, or use it for good.
What you do today is important
because you are exchanging a
day of your life for it.
-- Anonymous

Its kind of fun to do the
impossible.
-- Walt Disney

Failure is the path of least
PERSISTENCE.
-- Anonymous

If you can’t put it on a sheet of
paper, you probably can’t do
what it takes to achieve
the goal.
-- Anonymous

Past failures are guideposts
for future success.
-- Anonymous

A positive attitude is a powerful
force... it can’t be stopped.
-- Anonymous

We cannot change yesterday, we
can only make the most of today
and look with hope toward
tomorrow.
-- Anonymous

The one who lacks the courage to
start has already finished.
-- Anonymous

We are what and where we are
because we have first imagined it.
-- Donald Curtis

A quitter never wins and
a winner never quits.
The highest courage is to dare
to be yourself in the face of
adversity. Choosing right over
wrong, ethics over convenience,
and truth over popularity.
These are the choices that
measure your life. Travel the
path of integrity without
looking back, for there will
never be a wrong time to do
the right thing.
-- Anonymous

The real risk is doing nothing.
-- Denis Waitley

What you can do, or dream you
can, begin it. Boldness has genius,
power, and magic in it.
-- Johann Wolfgang Von Goethe

If we don’t change, we don’t
grow. If we don’t grow, we aren’t
really living.
-- Gail Sheehy

Dream pass into the reality of
action. From this action comes the
dream again, and this produces
the highest form of living.
-- Anais Nin

Plan to succeed or you have
planned to fail.
-- Anonymous

There are risks and costs to a
plan of action, but they are far
less than the long-term risks
and costs of comfortable
inactions.
-- Anonymous

There are those who see an
opportunity, and those who
SEIZE an opportunity.
-- Anonymous

Those who want to succeed will
find a way; those who don’t will
find an excuse.
-- Leo Aguila

If you mess up and learn nothing,
it’s a mistake. If you mess up and
learn something, it’s an
experience.
-- Mark McFadden

It’s amazing what ordinary people
can do if they set out with
preconceived notions.
-- Charles F. Kettering

No matter how small,
acknowledge the achievement.
-- Greg Henry Quinn

Success is not all about money.
It’s about having the resources
and the ability to live the life that
you have personally dreamed of.
-- Pete Zafra

The body achieves what the
mind believes.

If you don’t think everyday is a
great day, try going without one.
-- Jim Evans

To learn, you have to listen.
To improve, you have to try.
-- Thomas Jefferson

Perfection is our goal;
excellence will be tolerated.
-- Anonymous

Vision plus desire equals reality.
-- Anonymous

If you can dream it, you can do it.
Your limits are all within yourself.
-- Brian Tracy

We must have courage to bet on
our ideas, take the calculated risk,
and take action!
-- Martin Brown

Impossibility is an opinion, not
a fact.
-- Anonymous

Life is a state of mind; imagine
the one that you want, and
then create it.
-- Anonymous

No one lives long enough to
learn everything they need to
learn starting from scratch. To
be successful, we absolutely,
positively have to find people
who have already paid the price
to learn the things that we need
to learn to achieve our
goals.
-- Brian Tracy

It takes a person who is
wide-awake to make his
dream come true.
-- Roger Ward Babson

What distinguishes us from one
another is our dreams, and what
we do to make them come about.
-- Joseph Epstein

You must see your goals clearly
and specifically before you can
set out for them. Hold them in
your mind until they become
second nature.
-- Les Brown

Work like you don’t need the
money, love like you’ve never
been hurt, and dance like
nobody is watching.
-- Mark Twain



My fear is always that I'll make arrows as I go and then realize I'm going
the wrong way :-)
-- Keith Blom

I'm amazed I've never gotten lost there. It's really just a curvy trail with
curvy cross trails, and you just stay on the main curvy trail - simpler words
than actually doing it.
-- Keith Blom

The issue isn't so much what the body can do as much what we are willing to
make it do :-)
-- Keith Blom


Perhaps the genius of ultrarunning is its supreme lack of utility. It makes
no sense in a world of space ships and supercomputers to run vast distances
on foot. There is no money in it and no fame, frequently not even the
approval of peers. But as poets, apostles and philosophers have insisted
from the dawn of time, there is more to life than logic and common sense.
The ultra runners know this instinctively. And they know something else that
is lost on the sedentary. They understand, perhaps better than anyone, that
the doors to the spirit will swing open with physical effort. In running
such long and taxing distances they answer a call from the deepest realms of
their being - a call that asks who they are ...
-- David Blaikie


If you look up, you're going down!
-- Eric Steele


Pushing your body past what you thought it was capable of is easy; the hard part is
pushing yourself even further ... past what your mind wants to let you. That’s what
ultrarunning is all about; introducing you to a self you’ve never known.
– Rex Pace


Battling to maintain the delicate balance between hyperfitness and physical collapse.
-- Megan Liberman

Pain is a wonderful thing and now I was feeling wonderful, really wonderful!!!
-- Anonymous

Is this level of athletic competition the ultimate distraction from real life?
Or is it a form of prayer?
-- Norah Vincent


It's astounding, time is fleeting
Madness takes it's toll
But listen closely, not for very much longer
I've got to keep control.
-- The Rocky Horror Picture Show


Ultras, where the athlete pays and the spectator gets in free.
-- Anonymous

Keep the rubber side down.
-- Anonymous

Don't out-run your stomach.
-- Anonymous

Those of us who finish near the back make the rest of you look good.
-- Anonymous


We take these risks not to escape life, but to prevent life from escaping us.
-- Anonymous

I refuse to tip-toe through life only to arrive at death safely.
-- Anonymous

I decided to go for a little run.
-- Forrest Gump

The best conditioned athlete is a long distance runner.
-- John Thompson

Obstacles are what you see when you take your eyes off the goal.
-- Luis Escobar

You can never run a hill too hard, you will collapse before hurting it.
-- Anonymous


BTW, I still think the WS trail is one of the most beautiful places that
I have vomited.
-- Mary Gorski


Every man dies, but not every man really lives.
-- William Wallace


The way to heaven leads right through the depths of hell.
-- Peter Bakwin


There is no satisfaction without a struggle first.
-- Marty Liquori

I wasn’t a truly genuine trail ultrarunner until March 7, 1992 at the
Wild Oak 50 near Harrisonburg, Virginia. It was a rainy day and
simultaneously, while I was piddling on the run, chewing on an energy
bar and washing it down with Mountain Dew, my nose was dripping and I
farted. That was the ultimate defining moment in my trail running
career, if not my entire life.
-- Bob Boeder

Don't fear moving slowly forward ... fear standing still.
-- Kathleen Harris

It's very hard in the beginning to understand that the whole idea is not
to beat the other runners. Eventually you learn that the competition is
against the little voice inside you that wants you to quit.
-- George Sheehan

If you run hard, there's the pain - and you've got to work your way through
the pain ... You know, lately it seems all you hear is 'Don't overdo it' and
'Don't push yourself.' Well, I think that's a lot of bull. If you push the
human body, it will respond.
--Bob Clarke

I would rather exercise than read a newspaper.
-- Kim Alexis

Human beings, who are almost unique in having the ability to learn from the
experience of others, are also remarkable for their apparent disinclination
to do so.
-- Douglas Adams

Find the level of intolerance you can tolerate and stay there.
-- David Horton

I don't remember this bit
(while scaling a cliff about 25K into an easy 20K trail run)
-- Ross Walker

The thing I don't like about Western States is that you show up at the
starting line in the best shape of your life and a day later you are in
Auburn in the worst shape of your life.
(on Western States)
-- Andy Black

Perhaps the genius of ultrarunning is its supreme lack of utility. It makes
no sense in a world of space ships and supercomputers to run vast distances
on foot. There is no money in it and no fame, frequently not even the
approval of peers. But as poets, apostles and philosophers have insisted
from the dawn of time, there is more to life than logic and common sense.
The ultra runners know this instinctively. And they know something else that
is lost on the sedentary. They understand, perhaps better than anyone, that
the doors to the spirit will swing open with physical effort. In running
such long and taxing distances they answer a call from the deepest realms of
their being - a call that asks who they are ...
-- David Blaikie

You're not puking and nothing's broken so get going.
(to her husband, Scott, in the middle of the climb to
 Whitney Portal during Badwater 2000)
-- Vivian McQueeney

The luxurious ache of tired but not weary limbs.
-- Michael Fairless, 'The Roadmender'

It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong
man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The
credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred
by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, and comes
short again and again, because there is no effort without error and
shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows the
great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy
cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and
who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that
his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who know neither
victory nor defeat.
-- Theodore Roosevelt

Come on, you sons of bitches - do you want to live forever
-- Gunnery Sergeant Dan Daly

Just go out there and simutaneously piss in your shorts, fart like a
foghorn and drink from your mud-caked bottle. While you're at it let
some liquid dribble down your chin onto your shirt, look up at the
starry night and laugh like a raving lunatic. Fook em all. You're doing
what you love to do and no one can stop you.
-- Michael Musca

You guys just shuffle from concession stand to concession stand!
-- Helge Zimmet

There is no such thing as bad weather, only inappropriate clothing.
-- Ben Zander

Running fast requires conditioning your body, absorbing proper mechanics to
the point where they're second nature, and then forgetting the details and
letting it rip. It may sound funny to someone who hasn't been there, but
the more you can let go, the faster you can go.
Look at films of Mohammad Ali in his prime and you'll see how he had that
little wrist flick on the end of his jab; if he had to think about doing
that, he couldn't have done it. People have things inside them they don't
know about until it comes out. When somebody asks me how fast a human being
can run, I tell them that however fast they think it is, it'll be faster.
-- John Smith

I gazed in envy at ultra runners whose quadriceps had the kind of definition
that tells you Secretariat is somewhere in their family tree.
-- Liz Zelandais

The difference between me and Rick Hogan is that I always leave the
rattlesnake for the next guy.
(at old dominion, referring to a snake killed by Rick near the Peach
 Orchard aid station)
-- Andy Petterson


The moon was out and I saw some sheep.
I saw some sheep take a walk in their sleep.
By the light of the moon, by the light of a star,
They walked all night from near to far.
I would never walk, I would take a car.
-- Dr. Seuss

You can be out there having your worst day, but at the same time the person
next to you is having their best day. So there's really no room for crankiness
in the sport. At least I try to minimalize it
-- Suzie Lister, after '98 Western States

When we walk to the edge of all the light we have and take the step into the
darkness of the unknown, we must believe that one of two things will happen.
There will be something solid for us to stand on, or we will be taught to fly.
-- Patrick Overton

Well, there *used* to be a trail here somewhere ...
-- Kent Street

Do you think we were supposed to turn back there?
-- Skip Eastman

Ow.
-- Stan Jensen

Look Mabel, here comes one who's running!
-- Anonymous

You'll be wistful for the wall of the marathon,
when you hit the death grip of the ultra.
-- Bob Glover

Why couldn't Pheiddipedes have died at 20 miles?.
-- Frank Shorter

If you see a fork in the road, take it!
-- Yogi Berra

You can't be a schmuck and have great friends.
-- Buzz Burrell

If you can see the light coming out of the other ear, you're an Ultra runner.
-- Anonymous

I was starting to hurt, but then I burped and took a crap and am feeling
much better
-- Anonymous

My doctor told me that jogging could add years to my life. I think he was
right. I feel ten years older already.
-- Milton Berle

A 50K on trails is easier than a marathon on the road.
-- Anonymous

I swear, I'll never do this again.
-- Anonymous

If you can't see over it, walk it.
-- Anonymous

You're better than you think you are and you can do more than you think you can!
-- Ken Chlouber at Leadville

It all comes down to knowing how to handle situations that are thrown at you in
an ultra.
-- Kevin Setnes

These nuts got guts.
-- Jeff Stegeman

We'll tell you when to start and we'll tell you when to stop. In between, don't
think, just keep running.
-- Ken Chlouber at Leadville

A man must love a thing very much if he not only practices it without any hope of
fame and money, but even practices it without any hope of doing it well.
-- G. K. Chesterton

If you under-train, you may not finish, but if you over-train, you may not start.
-- Tom DuBos

The best long distance runners eat raw meat, run naked and sleep in the snow.
-- Alaska Airlines

There are times in our lives when we are drawn uncontrollably to some
dangerous source of misery.
(a letter to David Horton during his conquest of the
 Appalachian Trail: 2144 miles in 52 days, 9 hours, 41 minutes)
-- Suzi Thibeault

Common sense is necessary ... more so than high tech. Race to the
finish not race from the start, pace yourself, run your own race and
don't get sucked into someone else's, walk when you need too, run when
you can, eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow we will hurt.
-- Kevin Sayers

I love running cross-country ... You come up a hill and see two deer going:
'What the hell is he doing?' On a track, I feel like a hamster.
-- Robin Williams

When you are 99 miles into a 100-mile running race, your brain is not
the same brain you started with.
-- Paul Huddle

Your talents are wasted as an engineer, Stan. Your calling is
elsewhere.
-- Alex Feldman' AC97 report

Nobody should ever run a race where they are lapped by the sun.
-- Anonymous

O.K. when you come over the top of Casey Peak look straight down from the
top of the mountain and you'll see a tiny blue square down in the valley
[Casey Meadows], that's the tarp at the aid station. Run to it ... there's
no trail just run down through the boulders but don't go too far off to
the left or you'll end up trying to go down a cliff.
-- Jim Pomroy

The Barkley, of course. It was 20 hours longer.
(When asked whether Hardrock or Barkley was harder)
-- Mark Williams

Any idiot can run a marathon. It takes a special kind of idiot to run
an ultramarathon.
-- Alan Cabelly

Last is just the slowest winner.
-- C. Hunter Boyd

... so as we walked along the river toward Rucky Chucky, I said the
words that most men say to a pretty woman as they walk along the river
under a starry night on their first date: If you were a real hardass,
you'd stick your finger down your throat and clear your stomach and if
you won't do it, I will.
(pacing Sarah Lowell at WS'97)
-- Stan Jensen

Rewards are on a level with the effort, and the effort is extreme.
-- Anonymous

Don't work towards freedom; let the work be the freedom.
-- Dogen Roshi

Oh man! They should just put me out to stud!
(just after finishing his first 50-miler)
-- Len Kuentzm

Anybody running beats anybody walking, and anybody walking beats anybody
sitting.
-- Tom Bunk

Despite what seems like the extraordinary nature of these events, in the
end, they make you even more human.
-- Joel McNamara

Decide before the race the conditions that will cause you to stop and
drop out. You don't want to be out there saying, Well gee, my leg hurts,
I'm a little dehydrated, I'm sleepy, I'm tired, and its cold and windy.
And talk yourself into quitting. If you are making a decision based on
how you feel at that moment, you will probably make the wrong decision.
-- Dick Collins

The Quitter
When you're lost on the trail with the speed of a snail
And defeat looks you straight in the eye
And you're needing to sit, your whole being says quit
You're certain it's your time to die.
But the code of the trail is move forward don't fail
Though your knees and ego are scarred.
All the swelling and pain is just part of the game
In the long run it's quitting that's hard!

I'm sick of the pain! Well, now, that's a shame
But you're strong, you're healthy, and bright.
So you've had a bad stretch and you're ready to retch,
Shoulders back, move forward, and fight.
It's the plugging away that will win you the day,
Now don't be a loser my friend!
So the goal isn't near, why advance to the rear.
All struggles eventually end.

It's simple to cry that your finished; and die.
It's easy to whimper and whine.
Move forward and fight, though there's no help in sight
You'll soon cross the lost finish line.
You'll come out of the black, with the wind at your back,
As the clouds start to part; there's the sun.
Then you'll know in your heart, as you did at the start.
You're not a quitter. You've Won!!
-- Gene Thibeault

You can sleep when you die.
(seen on a T-shirt)
-- Roger Rehwald

Ultra-runners don't compromise ... they cope.
-- Bob Sharpley

Exercise is for people who can't handle drugs and alcohol.
-- Lily Tomlin

As long as you keep making RFM (Relentless Forward Motion), you will
finish.
-- Stacey Page

Find your limits and exceed them.
-- Lynn Strickland

Road sucks!
-- Skip & Tracey

Your body will argue that there is no justifiable reason to continue.
Your only recourse is to call on your spirit, which fortunately functions
independently of logic.
-- Tim Noakes

Beware of the chair!
-- Anonymous

I never knew I could DNF and still have so much fun.
-- Gregg Heinrichs

For all the hardship, I was still excited to be on the trail, testing my
endurance, feeling especially alive as strength and fatigue flowed
alternately through my limbs.
-- Colin Powell

No doubt a brain and some shoes are essential for marathon success,
although if it comes down to a choice, pick the shoes. More people finish
marathons with no brains than with no shoes.
-- Don Kardong

The runner need not break four minutes in the mile or four hours in the
marathon. It is only neccessary that he runs and runs and sometimes
suffers. Then one day he will wake up and discover that somewhere along the
the way he has begun to see the order and law and love and truth that makes
men free.
-- George Sheehan

... slowed my pace to the point that I could have been rear-ended by a
sleepy snail.
-- Dave Olney

If a frog had wings, he wouldn't bump his butt.
-- Keith Woestehoff

When you're afraid of failure you're more likely to do it.
-- Gordon Ainsleigh

Succeeding makes you forget the failures.
-- Harry Cordellos

Science can be useful, or it can just get in the way.
-- Karl King

I want to thank the rest of you for making me look normal.
-- Gordon Ainsleigh

Far away, there in the sunshine, are my highest aspirations. I may
not reach them, but I can look up and see their beauty, believe in
them, and try to follow where they may lead.
-- Louisa May Alcott

Nothing ever fatigues me, except that which I dislike.
-- Jane Austen

Runners can get through the weary and lonely hours only if they are at
peace in themselves.
-- Ayers

The greatest pleasure in life is doing what people say you cannot do.
-- Bagehot

No matter how well you know the course, no matter how well you may
have done in a given race in the past, you never know for certain
what lies ahead on the day you stand at the starting line waiting
to test yourself once again. If you did know, it would not be a
test; and there would be no reason for being there.
-- Dan Baglione

If I can't go faster I'll go longer.
-- Doug Barber

Self-destructive is doing something to hurt yourself. It is doing
permanent damage to yourself. I have done neither. As for being
obsessive, I am. I love to run.
-- John Barltrop

The longest hill must end in a valley.
-- Henry C. Beeching

Don't worry - you're supposed to walk the uphills.
-- Shelley Black

Speed is sex ... distance is love.
-- David Blaikie

The road to excess leads to the place of wisdom, for we can
never know what is enough until we have experienced too much.
-- William Blake

In ultrarunning, the pain is inevitable, but the suffering is
optional.
-- Al Bogenhuber

If someone says, 'Hey, I ran 100 miles this week. How far did you
run?' ignore him! What the hell difference does it make? ...
The magic is in the man, not the 100 miles.
-- Bill Bowerman

You can't die from a stomach ache. The worst that can happen is that
you'll throw up. Then you can eat some more and start running again.
-- Jack Bristol

A man's reach must exceed his grasp, or else what's a heaven for?
-- Robert Browning

Go fast enough to get there, but slow enough to see.
-- Jimmy Buffett

I like those people. They are calmer and cooler, I think. Personality-
wise, they are rich. An ultra runner is not somebody who is normally
going to wish you bad. On the contrary if you are down an ultra runner
will help you.
-- Michel Careau

Vincit qui patitur: he conquers, who endures
-- Percy Cerutty

If it hurts, make it hurt more
-- Percy Cerutty

I think the novelty has worn off.
-- Jack Chapman

The only way to define your limits is by going beyond them.
-- Arthur C. Clarke

The number of miles I have run since I was a toddler would have
taken me around the world several times, and I still cannot define
precisely my joy in running. There is no sacrifice in it. I lead
what I regard a normal life. In my case, I thoroughly enjoy
running 100-odd miles a week. If I didn't I wouldn't do it. Who
can define happiness? To some, happiness is a warm puppy or a glass
of cold beer. To me, happiness is running in the hills with my
mates around me.
-- Ron Clarke

Follow me - I know the way
(as he led at large group astray at Nugget 1994)
-- Herman Cohen

If you think you won't finish, you won't.
-- Dick Collins

Champions are born with the right stuff, but still must suffer the
stresses of training to achieve full potential.
-- David Costill

The purpose of training is to stress the body, so when you rest it will
grow stronger and more tolerant of the demands of distant running.
-- David Costill

Speed and strength are of diminishing importance at greater and greater
distances.
-- David Costill

The most important thing in life is not the triumph but the struggle.
The essential thing is not to have conquered but to have fought well.
-- Pierre de Courbertin

You can't get lost on this course!
-- Joe Dabes

A runner's creed: I will win; if I cannot win, I shall be second;
if I cannot be second, I shall be third; if I cannot place at all,
I shall still do my best.
-- Ken Doherty

To describe the agony of a marathon to someone who's never run it is
like trying to explain color to someone who was born blind.
-- Jerome Drayton

How many days does it take to run a hundred miles?
-- Skip Eastman

The only way to be who you want to be is by being what you haven't yet
been.
-- Sally Edwards

Great spirits often encounter violent opposition from mediocre minds.
-- Albert Einstein

Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out how far
they can go.
-- T.S. Eliot

Do the thing and have the power
-- Ralph Waldo Emerson

Adopt the pace of nature; her secret is patience
-- Ralph Waldo Emerson

The people that I have met are not foolish; they are aware of how
tired and cold and hungry and frightened and hurting and discouraged
and disoriented and how possibly injured they will become. They know
they will face great physical, mental, emotional, and possibly
spiritual challenges as they make their way to the finish. This is
what they are racing against. This is their challenge. This is what
I admire.
-- Carolyn Erdman

The race continued as I hammered up the trail, passing rocks and trees
as if they were standing still.
-- Red Fisher

If at first you don't succeed, you can always become an
ultramarathoner.
-- Bruce Fordyce

A race is just a race, but a friend who paces you is a friend for life.
-- Joseph Franko

Trails with high passes and girls with nice asses.
-- Doug Freese

The woods are lovely, dark and deep, but I have promises to keep,
and miles to go before I sleep, and miles to go before I sleep.
-- Robert Frost

Whatever you think you can do or believe you can do, begin it.
Action has magic, grace and power in it.
-- Goethe

If Klingons were runners, they would be Ultrarunners.
-- Bryan Hacker

The 10-K is a race. The marathon is an experience. The ultra is an
adventure.
-- Bryan Hacker

I cannot do everything, but still I can do something and because I
cannot do everything, I will not refuse to do the something that I
can do.
-- Edward Everett Hale

I'm tired.
-- Jussie Hammalainen

A man's got to know his limitations.
-- Dirty Harry

Drink, drink, drink! Pee, pee, pee!
-- Ed Hart

The gulf between what we feel we are doing and what others perceive us
to be doing will remain the most ultra of all distances, one that no
amount of miles or words can finally bridge.
-- Hart

Why would anyone want to do this a second time?
-- Sue Haupt

The more of us that do it, the harder it is for them to dismiss us
as just a bunch of really weird people. Especially when we otherwise
appear so normal.
-- Dan Hawthorne

There's a lot to be said for LSD - long, slow distance in this case.
-- Joe Henderson

Why am I doing this?
-- Don Herres

It's not the races you enter that count. It's your runs in training
and sticking with it. It's how you adjust to injury and how you recover
that makes you a good runner.
-- Dave Hladysh

Run hard, run long!
-- Jay Hodde

Boredom and fatigue are very similar experiences.
-- Al Howie

It is better to die on your feet than to live on your knees.
-- Dolores Ibarruri

Because I can.
(When asked Why do you run 100 mile races?)
-- Tom Johnson

We (ultra runners) alternate between depression and stupidity.
-- Don Kardong

Grizzly bears eat people without the benefit of music.
-- Don Kardong

If you run 100 miles a week, you can eat anything you want - Why?
Because:
(a) you'll burn all the calories you consume;
(b) you deserve it; and
(c) you'll be injured soon and back on a restricted diet anyway.
-- Don Kardong

Security is mostly a superstition; it does not exist in nature. Life
is either a daring adventure or nothing.
-- Helen Keller

All the disruptive arguments among my friends as to whether or not I
was sane when I took up marathon running have been entirely resolved
since I ran my first 50-miler.
-- John Kendall

Life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced
-- Kierkegard

If you can't fly, then run.
If you can't run, then walk.
If you can't walk, then crawl.
But whatever you do, keep moving.
-- Martin Luther King, Jr.

Enjoy your pain, you earned it!
-- Pauli Kiriu

You run an ultra largely on concentration ... not letting your form
drag and continuing to run. Your body quits and the mind takes over.
It's not like a marathon where you think, maybe I can gut it out.
-- Georgs Kolesnikovs

My advice is that you should use your brains more and train less.
-- Yiannis Kouros

There is another type of strength. It is being able to extend your
energy for a very long distance.
-- David LaPierre

If one could run without getting tired I don't think one would often
want to do anything else.
-- C.S. Lewis

Determine that the thing can and shall be done, and then we will find
the way.
-- Abraham Lincoln

You've got to be a little bored to be doing really good training.
-- Marty Liquori

Just remember this: No one ever won the olive wreath with an
impressive training diary.
-- Marty Liquori

The endurance athlete is the ultimate realist.
-- Marty Liquori

Fatigue makes cowards of us all
-- Vince Lombardi

Fear is a part of everything you do ... You have to take great risks
to get big rewards.
-- Greg Louganis

You hear about how runnin' ultras is all mental; well, I sure wish
it'd hurry up and get mental, 'cause it's feelin' awfully physical
right now.
-- Ken Loveless

I never met a carbohydrate I didn't like.
-- David Lygre

Running is a big question mark that's there each and every day.
It asks you, 'Are you going to be a wimp or are you going to be
strong today?'
-- Peter Maher

It's the pain of the consequences that's all out of proportion.
-- Kenny Moore

Climb the mountains and get their good tidings. The winds will blow
their freshness into you, and the storms, their energy. Your cares
and tensions will drop away like the leaves of autumn.
-- John Muir

No matter what hurts at the beginning, by the end of the race
something else will hurt worse.
-- Bob O'Connor

Pain is good. Extreme Pain is Extremely Good ...
-- Anonymous

Never judge a day by the weather.
-- Dave Nelson

That which does not destroy me makes me stronger
-- Friedrich Nietzsche

Whoever fights monsters should see that in the process he does not
become a monster. When you look long into the abyss, the abyss also
looks into you.
-- Friedrich Nietzsche

It just doesn't get any better than this.
-- Chris Nymann

Never look back, someone might be gaining on you
-- Satchel Paige

The harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we
obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly; it is dearness only that
gives everything its value. I love the man that can smile in trouble,
that can gather strength from distress and grow brave by reflection.
-- Thomas Paine

Each time you run you will receive lessons. You have enrolled in
the school of ultrarunning. You may like the lessons or think them
irrelevant and stupid. What you think makes no difference; the
lessons will be presented until they are learned.
-- Keith Pippin

When you run there are no mistakes, only lessons. The art and
science of ultrarunning is a process of trial, error and
experimentation. The failed experiments are as much a part of the
process as the combination that ultimately works.
-- Keith Pippin

Once that distance had been passed in training, an important physical
and psychological threshold had been crossed. It was no longer a
question of *if* it could be done. Rather, it became a question of
*how fast* it could be done.
-- Mike Plant

Self-conquest is the greatest of victories.
-- Plato

You will get through the tired times, don't give up. There is lots of
time. Walk and in a while you will be running again.
-- Rolly Portelance

The mind learns the body can go at least a bit farther even though it
feels increasingly uncomfortable.
-- Pritikin

Sometimes you should overcome the tiredness and speed up when you'd
normally slow down. Great source of strength and power.
-- Pritikin

If the bone's not showin', just keep goin'!
-- Joan Risse

Happy trails to you, until we meet again
-- Roy Rogers and Dale Evans

You must do the thing you think you cannot do.
-- Eleanor Roosevelt

It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the
strong man stumbled, or where the doer of deeds could have done them
better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena;
whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives
valiantly, who errs and comes short again and again; who knows the
great enthusiasms, the great devotions, and spends himself in a
worthy cause; who, at the best, knows in the end the triumph of high
achievement; and who at the worst, at least fails while daring
greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid
souls who know neither victory nor defeat.
-- Theodore Roosevelt

Too much is better than not enough.
-- Kyle Rothweiler

I had as many doubts as anyone else. Standing on the starting line,
we're all cowards.
-- Alberto Salazar

The will to do, the soul to dare.
-- Sir Walter Scott

Sweetness and release can only taste the way they do after one
deserves them.
-- Shapiro

The body is given out on loan - don't waste it and expect to use it
tomorrow.
-- Shapiro

Ultra runners are daffy about practical matters.
-- Shapiro

A dozen extra steps becomes a tremendous aggravation when you are
pushing your edge out hour after hour.
-- Shapiro

Enjoy the training and memories of race day, endure the race.
-- Shapiro

I have met my hero, and he is me.
-- George Sheehan

Have you ever felt worse after a run?
-- George Sheehan

Success rests in having the courage and endurance, and above all,
the will to become the person you are. . .
-- George Sheehan

It's very hard in the beginning to understand that the whole
idea is not to beat the other runners. Eventually you learn that
the competition is against the little voice inside you that wants
you to quit.
-- George Sheehan

Some think guts is sprinting at the end of a race. But guts is what got
you there to begin with. Guts start back in the hills with 6 miles to go
and you're thinking of how you can get out of this race without anyone
noticing. Guts begin when you still have forty minutes of torture left
and you're already hurting more than you ever remember.
-- George Sheehan

I won't last forever, but I'm damn well going to know that I was here!
-- George Sheehan

Nothing is more certain than the defeat of a man who gives up.
-- George Sheehan

That which does not kill us, cripples us for life
-- Fred Shufflebarger

Let him that would move the world first move himself
-- Socrates

Start slow, then taper off.
-- Walt Stack

ARRRGH - what in God's name ever possessed me to think this would be a
good thing to do?
-- Charles N. Steele

I never met a hill I couldn't walk.
-- Larry Stice

I will not follow where the path may lead, but I will go where there is
no path and I will leave a trail.
-- Muriel Strode

To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.
-- Alfred Lord Tennyson

I have to find another port-a-tree.
-- Ellie Thayer

If you start to feel good during an Ultra, don't worry - you'll get
over it.
-- Gene Thibeault

It's the quitting that really is hard.
-- Gene Thibeault

Above all, train hard, eat light, and avoid TV and people with negative
attitudes.
-- Scott Tinley

Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads.
-- Thoreau

Finish with a smile on your face.
-- Joe Trask

It hurts up to a point and then it doesn't get any worse.
-- Ann Trason

People think ultra is some kind of spaghetti eating contest for people
with no talent to do anything else. But there's a lot going on. I break
it down into the physical, the mental and endurance. Physical is the
only gender-specific area; men have more muscle mass, the strongest man
is always going to be stronger than the strongest woman. But I think
physical is only a small percentage of ultra. The mental part includes
preparation, strategizing, problem solving. How do you deal with 22
miles through snow, then overheating? How do you avoid allowing someone
to lure you into running their race? You have to learn how to run over
rocks downhill without trashing your quads; it's like skiing or dancing.
And then endurance. An ultra is not about pain - I think a marathon is
about pain, about intensity - but it's about hanging in through
tiredness and about staying nutritionally fueled. There is some evidence
that women may use fat more efficiently. And you have to want it, you
have to have the passion, you have to be willing to take the risks. You
can never be sure you'll finish.
-- Ann Trason

There's no tangible reward in anything I do, certainly not in running
Western States. It's just an interesting challenge.
-- Tim Twietmeyer

Run slowly, run daily, drink moderately, and don't eat like a pig!
-- Ernst Van Aaken

When you weigh as much as I do, the downhills are glorious!
-- Kelly D. Wason

Any race you can walk away from, is a bad race
-- Coach Pete Waters

You move from doing things to show other people you could, to
where you do things to look into yourself, into your soul, and
see who you are and what youre all about.
-- Scott Weber

There are victories of the soul and spirit. Sometimes, even if you
lose, you win.
-- Elie Wiesel

Too much knowledge can hold you back. Ignorance on the other hand, now
that was something that could get you to the finish line.
-- Mark Will-Weber

You'll have no trouble keeping up. Remember, I'm a 35 minute miler.
(when discussing a training run)
-- Mark Williams

Anything worth doing is worth doing to the extreme.
-- Bruce Wise

Long May You Run
-- Neil Young

If I can see it, I can run to it.
-- Randi Bromka Young

If you get tired on a trail run, lie down in the middle of the trail in
such a way that no one could pass you without waking you up - it will
insure your finish line position.
-- Glen Zirbel

If you can dream it, you can do it.
-- Angeles Crest motto

May the road rise up to greet you, and the wind always be at your back
-- Anonymous

26 miles 385 yards is where racing ends and ludicrous extremes begin.
-- Runner's World

For yesterday is but a dream,
And tomorrow is only a vision,
But today well-lived makes
Every yesterday a dream of happiness,
and every tomorrow a vision of hope.
Look well, therefore, to this day!
Such is the salutation of the dawn.
-- The Sanskrit

The pain is temporary, The pride lasts forever.
-- Anonymous

If you can't learn anything from losing, don't lose.
-- Anonymous

Always enjoy yourself. Never give up. Don't think of being tired.
Keep on going until you cross the finish line. Don't be upset if you
don't win.
-- Anonymous

Stick a fork in me, I'm done.
-- Anonymous

It used to freak me out when I threw up, now I don't even slow down.
-- Anonymous

Your biggest challenge isn't someone else. It's the ache in your lungs
and the burning in your legs, and the voice inside you that yells
'CAN'T, but you don't listen. You just push harder. And then you hear
the voice whisper 'can'. And you discover that the person you thought
you were is no match for the one you really are.
-- Anonymous

The second 50 is done with the mind.
-- Anonymous

Well, dear, I hope you know what you're doing.
-- Anonymous

I run distance because I want to be in good shape when I die.
-- Anonymous

Look honey, here comes one that's still running!
-- Anonymous

Adversity introduces a man to himself.
-- Anonymous

Running is a four weather sport.
-- Anonymous

What doesn't kill me sure does make me hungry.
-- Anonymous

Not bad for an old guy.
-- Anonymous

Opportunity is often passed up because it is disguised as hard work.
-- Anonymous

Everywhere is within running distance ... if you have the time.
-- Anonymous

The finish line is just ahead.
The aid station is just ahead.
Trust me ... this is the last hill.
You're almost there.
The trail is well marked.
-- Anonymous

If we do what we did yesterday, we'll be OK. If we do something new
we'll be competetive. If we are always looking for new and innovative
ways of doing things then we will be the best.
-- Anonymous

There are clubs you can't belong to, Neighborhoods you can't
live in, Schools you can't get into, But the roads are always open.
-- Anonymous

It's easy to imagine how you will act when things go according to plan,
that's why you must always prepare yourself for what you will do when
they don't.
-- Anonymous

The finishing line isn't given; it is earned.
-- Anonymous

God, I must be crazy.
-- Anonymous

It's not the beginning or the end of a race that counts, It's what
happens in between.
-- Anonymous

I get to eat *anything* and don't have to worry about putting on
weight?
-- Anonymous

Fear, like pain, may only be God's way ... of hurting us.
-- Anonymous

In an ultra you should eat like a horse, drink like a fish, and run
like a turtle.
-- Anonymous

His IQ drops 50 points every time he laces up a pair of running shoes.
-- Anonymous

The race isn't always to the swiftest, but to those who keep on
running.
-- Anonymous

If you can't run fast, run far.
-- Anonymous

Frank Hanson promises nothing in his runs, and by God he delivers.
-- Anonymous

If you want to play the game you have to train.
-- Anonymous

Action cures fear
-- Anonymous

Those who say it can't be done are usually interrupted by others doing
it.
-- Anonymous

To achieve all that is possible, we must attempt the impossible - to be
as much as we can, we must dream of being more.
-- Anonymous

Been there, done that, don't need to do it again.
-- Anonymous

At some point it doesn't get any worse.
-- Anonymous

Positive mental sickness.
-- Anonymous

The greatest of all victories is to be victorious over yourself.
-- Anonymous

Lead, follow or GET OUTA the way!
-- Anonymous

Respect the distance or it won't respect you.
-- Anonymous

I didn't go out to fast, I just died too soon.
-- Anonymous

Anyone who thinks the sky is the limit has a limited imagination.
-- Anonymous

Some people dream of worthy accomplishments while others stay awake and
do them.
-- Anonymous

Nothing beats experience.
-- Anonymous

The amount of time the body needs to recuperate is not a sign of
weakness but a fact of life.
-- Anonymous

Mental fortitude is more important than physical endurance.
-- Anonymous

A pounding heart is a sure sign you are putting forth your best effort.
-- Anonymous

A runner thinks less in terms of beating others, than in simply running
the best he has within himself.
-- Anonymous

The duration of an athletic contest is relatively short, while the
training for it may take many weeks of arduous work and continuous
exercise of self-effort. The real value of sport is not the actual
game played in the limelight of applause but the hours of dogged
determination and self-discipline carried out alone, imposed and
supervised by an exacting conscience. The applause soon dies away, the
prize is left behind, but the character you build is yours forever.
-- Anonymous

Every morning in Africa, a gazelle wakes up. It knows it must
outrun the fastest lion or it will be killed. Every morning in
Africa, a lion wakes up. It knows it must run faster than the
slowest gazelle, or it will starve. It doesn't matter whether
you're a lion or a gazelle - when the sun comes up, you'd better
be running.
-- Anonymous

There is no future if we only repeat the past.
-- Anonymous

All things in moderation.
-- Anonymous

All things in moderation, including moderation.
-- Anonymous

MOST things in moderation
-- Anonymous

No brain, no pain
-- Anonymous

The first 50 miles are run with the legs, the second 50 miles with the
mind.
-- Anonymous

90% of ultrarunning is 100% mental.
-- Anonymous

Nobody is going to finish this damn thing for me, but me.
-- Anonymous
